Obtaining Access to and  
Copies of Copyright Office 
Records and Deposits

The Copyright Office maintains records of and indexes to deposits, registrations, 
recordations, and other items related to copyright registration. The Office’s 
records and indexes are open to public inspection and can be copied. Under 
certain limited conditions, Office staff members can copy or reproduce items 
deposited with the Office and retained under its control. To assist with searches 
to locate and copy material, the Office provides various fee-based services. 
Alternatively, patrons can search certain records independently and copy them 
for a fee on machines in the Office. Certified copies of certain records are also 
available for a fee.

note: Copyright Office fees are subject to change. For current fees, see Circular 4,  

Copyright Office Fees, available on the Office’s website at www.copyright.gov, or call 

the Office at (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free).

Fee-Based Services

If you want to inspect or request certified or uncertified copies of Copyright 
Office records or deposits, other than Licensing Division records, contact 
the Records Research and Certification Section. Only staff members of the 
Copyright Office or the Library of Congress can copy or reproduce copyright 
deposits. The Records Research and Certification Section is open to the public 
between 8:30 am and 5:00 pm, eastern time, Monday through Friday, except 
federal holidays.

You can request copies of records or deposits, or ask to inspect copies of 

records or deposits, by regular mail, email, or fax, or you can call in your 
request.

Copyright RRC
P.O. Box 70400
Washington, DC 20024
tel: (202) 707-6787 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free)
fa x: (202) 252-3519
copycerts@copyright.gov

Please provide your daytime telephone number.

Copies of Public Records Other Than Deposits

Upon request, the Copyright Office will prepare certified or uncertified copies 
of certain public records. (See page 3 for details about requesting copies of 
deposits.) To minimize the time needed for searches by the Copyright Office 
staff, clearly specify the records you want. Doing so is important, because these 
searches require payment of a fee in addition to the certification fee and the 

wCircular 62 6.0119copying fee. But if you can provide a registration number or, 
for recorded documents, a volume and document or page 
number, no search fee is required.

Photocopies of the following copyright-related records 
can be obtained: affidavits, registration applications, assign-
ments, contracts, licenses, and other documents that have 
been recorded in the Copyright Office.

Written requests for copies of records should clearly

1 

identify the type of records you want (for example, 
additional certificates of registration, copies of correspon-
dence, copies of assignments);

2  specify whether you require certified or uncertified copies;

3  specify the records to be copied, including, if possible, 

details about

a  the type of work involved (for example, novel, lyrics, or 

photograph);

b  the registration number, including the letters repre-

senting the class in which the work was registered (for 
example, TX000-000, A000) (required);

Obtaining Access to and Copies of Records and Deposits  ·  2

original work of authorship or the owner’s agent can register 
a claim to copyright. (See Circular 1, Copyright Basics, for 
information on registration procedures.) After the claim to 
copyright has been examined and the Office has determined 
that the claim should be registered, the Office will send the 
owner of the copyright a certificate of registration under the 
seal of the Copyright Office. If the registration of a work was 
made before or within five years of first publication of the 
work, the certificate of registration will serve as prima facie 
evidence of the validity of the copyright and of the facts 
stated in the certificate.

Anyone can request additional certificates of copyright 
registration by writing to the Copyright Office. The addi-
tional certificate has the same legal or evidentiary effect as 
the original certificate. Although the additional certificate 
does not include the ribbon and blue backing of the original 
certificate, it contains the seal and signature of the Register 
of Copyrights and needs no further certification. 

Your request for an additional certificate should include:

1  the title of the copyrighted work;

c  the year or approximate year of registration (for example, 

2  the registration number (see note below);

1985);

d  the complete title of the work;

3  the year of registration or publication;

4  any other information needed to identify the registration; 

e  the author(s), including any pseudonym by which the 

and

author(s) may be known;

f  the claimant(s); and

g  for a copy of an assignment, contract, or other 

recorded document, the volume and page number of 
the Copyright Office record where information on the 
recorded document can be found.

Written requests must also comply with any special 

requirements outlined below for obtaining copies of certain 
types of documents. If you request an additional certificate 
of registration, include the relevant fee. (The Records 
Research and Certification section will review requests for 
copies of other items and quote fees for each.) Also include 
your daytime telephone number, mailing and email 
addresses, and fax number so a Copyright Office staff 
member can contact you.

If you cannot provide a year of registration and title for a 
work, Copyright Office records may have to be searched for 
purposes of verification. There is a fee for this service. For 
current fees, visit the Copyright Office website, write the 
Office, or call (202) 707-6850 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free).

Additional Certificates of Registration

Copyright registration makes a public record of the basic 
facts of a particular copyright. The copyright owner of an 

5  the correct fee. For current fees, visit the Copyright Office 
website, write the office, or call (202) 707-6787 or 1-877-
476-0778 (toll free).

note: If you don’t know the registration number of the copy-

righted work involved, request a search for the number before 

requesting an additional certificate. Contact the Records 

Research and Certification Section at (202) 707-6850 for fur-

ther information.

Certification of Copies

For a fee, Copyright Office records, including registrations, 
preregistrations, and recordations, can be certified on a reg-
ular or expedited basis. Contact the Records Research and 
Certification Section for additional information. When the 
Copyright Office certifies a copy of a record, it attaches a 
statement under the seal of the Copyright Office attesting 
that the document is a true copy of the record in question. 
Certified copies are often requested as evidence of the 
authenticity of documents when litigation is involved. The 
cost of certification is in addition to any other applicable 
fees, such as search, retrieval, or duplication fees.

Copies of Deposits

Nature of Deposit Copies

Obtaining Access to and Copies of Records and Deposits  ·  3
Obtaining Access to and Copies of Records and Deposits  ·  3

All requests for copies of deposits should be submitted to the 
Records Research and Certification Section. The Copyright 
Office does not retain all works deposited for copyright reg-
istration. The Office will provide certified or uncertified 
copies of published or unpublished works deposited in con-
nection with a copyright registration and held in the Office’s 
custody only when one of the following three conditions has 
been met:

1  Written authorization is received from the copyright 

claimant of record or the owner of any of the exclusive 
rights in the copyright, as long as this ownership can be 
demonstrated by written documentation of the transfer 
of ownership. 

If the transfer of the copyright is recorded in the 
Copyright Office, please include, if possible, the volume 
and page numbers and approximate year of recordation. 
Without that information, a search of the Copyright Office 
files will be necessary, and a search fee will be required.

2  The Copyright Office Litigation Statement Form is 

completed and received from an attorney or authorized 
representative in connection with litigation, actual or pro-
spective, involving the copyrighted work. The following 
information must be included in such a request: (a) the 
names of all parties involved and the nature of the con-
troversy, and (b) the name of the court in which the actual 
case is pending. In the case of a prospective proceeding, 
the requestor must give a full statement of the facts of 
controversy in which the copyrighted work is involved, 
attach any letter or other document that supports the 
claim that litigation may be instituted, and make satisfac-
tory assurance that the requested reproduction will be 
used only in connection with the specified litigation. 
  Contact the Records Research and Certification Section 
for a Litigation Statement Form. This form must be used. 
No substitute will be permitted. The form must contain a 
signature and all information requested for the Copyright 
Office to process a request. The Office will accept either 
handwritten or electronic signatures.

3  A court order is issued for a reproduction of a deposited 
article, facsimile, or identifying portion of a work that is 
the subject of litigation in its jurisdiction. The order must 
be issued by a court having jurisdiction over a case in 
which the copy is to be submitted as evidence.

A request for copies of works deposited in connection 
with a copyright claim should be accompanied by whatever 
material is necessary to show that one of the three conditions 
given above has been met.

When you order a copy of a work deposited in connection 
with a copyright claim, the Records Research and Certification 
Section will supply a reproduction of one of the following, 
depending upon the actual deposit: 

1  the deposited work; 

2  any identifying material submitted in lieu of the original 

work; or 

3  a reproduction of any facsimile that the Copyright Office 
is required by law to retain when the deposited article has 
been transferred to the Library of Congress.

If you request a reproduction of a deposit not retained 
under the control of the Copyright Office, the Office will 
inform you of this fact. In the event that a deposit was selected 
for the Library of Congress collections, you can search the 
collections at www.loc.gov or send an email inquiry to a 
librarian at www.loc.gov/rr/askalib/ask-contactus.html.

Copies of Phonorecord Deposits

If you request a reproduction of a phonorecord, such as an 
audiotape, cassette, CD, or diskette, in which either a sound 
recording or the underlying musical, dramatic, or literary 
work is embodied, the Copyright Office will provide proxi-
mate reproduction. Because of the characteristics of available 
sound reproduction, all frequencies contained in the original 
phonorecord may not be reproduced.

The Copyright Office will provide the title and the regis-
tration number of the phonorecord. In response to a specific 
request, the Copyright Office will provide reproductions of 
any printed or other visually perceptible material deposited 
with the phonorecord.

Additional Searches and Records

The Records Research and Certification Section will also ini-
tiate in-process searches as well as searches in the correspon-
dence and unfinished business files of the Copyright Office 
for material that may include original letters from authors 
and publishers, uncataloged deposit copies (possibly unique 
examples), and similar information. Because some of these 
materials are not readily retrievable, consult section staff to 
determine how long a search will take.

Inspection of Copyright Office Records

You can inspect (a) completed records and indexes related to 
a registration or a recorded document and (b) copies or iden-
tifying material deposited in connection with a completed 
registration or rejection in the Records Research and Certifi-
cation Section. Some of these materials are stored outside the 
Copyright Office; contact section staff to determine how 

 
long it will take to retrieve the requested materials. Inspec-
tion hours are Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, 
eastern time, except federal holidays and are prearranged.

Expedited Services

The Records Research and Certification Section offers expe-
dited services with prior approval. Call (202) 707-6787 for 
details.

Fees

Fees are cumulative. Certification fees are in addition to any 
other applicable fees, such as search fees or photoduplication 
fees. There is an additional charge for each hour or fraction 
of an hour required to locate all Copyright Office records, 
except where the requestor supplies the Copyright Office 
with the registration number and year of registration. For 
current fees, visit the Copyright Office website, write the 
office, or call (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free).

Obtaining Access to and Copies of Records and Deposits  ·  4

The Copyright Card Catalog, which includes more than 35 

million cards, indexes copyright registrations in the United 
States from 1870 through 1977. It is open to public inspec-
tion in the Copyright Office.

The Catalog of Copyright Entries, published in book form 

from July 1, 1891, through 1978 and in microfiche format 
from 1979 through 1982, is available in many libraries 
throughout the country and online at http://archive.org/
details/copyrightrecords.

Information such as registration numbers may be 

obtained from these files. Obtaining this information your-
self rather than paying a fee to have the Office search for it 
will reduce the cost of obtaining records and copies from the 
Copyright Office. 

Note that The Catalog of Copyright Entries, the Copyright 
Card Catalog, and the online files are indexes, not reproduc-
tions of original documents. To view or copy the original 
documents yourself, you must visit the Copyright Office.

Checks or money orders must be made payable to Register 

Licensing Division Records

of Copyrights. For information on deposit accounts, see 
Circular 5, How to Open and Maintain a Copyright Office 
Deposit Account. Credit card payments are accepted by phone 
or in person but not by mail.

Based on the information you provide, the Copyright 
Office will estimate your total fee. Address all requests for fee 
estimates to the Records Research and Certification Section.
Payments in excess of the statutory fee will be refunded, 
but refunds of $50 or less will be made only upon request. To 
cover administrative and processing costs, fees received in 
conjunction with requests for additional certificates of regis-
tration will not be refunded even if the additional certificates 
cannot be provided, usually because no such registration 
exists.

Accessing Records on Your Own

For details about doing research in the records of the Copy-
right Office, see Circular 22, How to Investigate the Copyright 
Status of a Work, and Circular 23, The Copyright Card Cata-
log and the Online Files of the Copyright Office.

Public access to Copyright Office records in machine-
readable form cataloged from January 1, 1978, to the present, 
including registration information and recorded documents, 
is available online at www.copyright.gov . These records include 
original and renewal registrations and recorded documents, 
including Notices of Intent to Enforce a Restored Copyright 
under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act. 

The Licensing Division of the Copyright Office maintains 
records of transactions related to the secondary transmis-
sion of copyrighted works on cable television systems and by 
satellite carriers for private home viewing; the making and 
distribution of phonorecords; the use of certain works in 
connection with noncommercial broadcasting; and public 
performance of copyrighted music on jukeboxes from 1978 
to 1989.

The records of the Licensing Division are open to public 
inspection during hours of public service, 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, 
eastern time, Monday through Friday, except federal holidays, 
in the Public Records Reading Room of the James Madison 
Memorial Building. In addition, statements of account for 
secondary transmissions by cable systems from January 1, 1992, 
to the present are available at http://licensing.copyright.gov/
search. Inquiries about documents related to licensing should 
be addressed to:

Library of Congress
Copyright Office-LD
101 Independence Avenue SE
Washington, DC 20559-6400
tel: (202) 707-8150

For more information about the Licensing Division, see  
Circular 75, The Licensing Division of the Copyright Office.

For Further Information

By Internet

Obtaining Access to and Copies of Records and Deposits  ·  5

holidays. Recorded information is available 24 hours a day. 
To request paper application forms or circulars, available by 
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave 
a recorded message.

Circulars, announcements, regulations, applications, and 
other materials are available from the Copyright Office web-
site at www.copyright.gov.

By Regular Mail

Write to:

By Telephone

For general information about copyright, call the Copyright 
Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-
0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 
5:00 pm, eastern time, Monday through Friday, except federal 

Library of Congress
Copyright Office-COPUBS
101 Independence Avenue SE
Washington, DC 20559

circular 6  reviewed: 01 ⁄ 2019  Printed on recycled paper 

u.s. government printing office: 2019-xxx-xxx ⁄ xx,xxx

U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · www.copyright.gov