52

Copyright Registration of
Choreography  
and Pantomime

This circular provides general 

information about registering 

choreography and pantomime  

with the U.S. Copyright Office.  

It covers

•  Works published before  

January 1, 1978

•  Fixation

•  Categories of dance and  

movement not protected  

by copyright

•  Compilations

•  Derivative works

For more specific information,  

see chapter 800, sections 805  

and 806, of the Compendium  

of U.S. Copyright Office Practices.

The Copyright Act provides in section 102(a)(4) for copy-
right protection in “pantomimes and choreographic works” 
created after January 1, 1978, and fixed in some tangible 
medium of expression.1 Choreography is the composition 
and arrangement of a related series of dance movements 
and patterns organized into a coherent whole. Pantomime 
is the art of imitating, presenting, or acting out situations, 
characters, or events through the use of physical gestures 
and bodily movements. Choreography and pantomimes 
consisting of ordinary motor activities, social dances, com-
monplace movements or gestures, or athletic movements 
may lack a sufficient amount of authorship to qualify for 
copyright protection.

Elements of Choreography and Pantomime

A choreographic work or pantomime typically contain one or 
more of the elements described below, although the presence 
or absence of a given element does not determine whether a 
particular work constitutes choreography or a pantomime.

Common elements of choreography include

•  Rhythmic movements of one or more dancers’ bodies in 
a defined sequence and a defined spatial environment, 
such as a stage

•  A series of dance movements or patterns organized 

into an integrated, coherent, and expressive composi-
tional whole

•  A story, theme, or abstract composition conveyed 

through movement

•  A presentation before an audience

•  A performance by skilled individuals

•  Musical or textual accompaniment

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR Common elements of pantomime include

•  Direction of a performer’s movements, gestures, and facial expressions in a defined sequence 

and a defined spatial environment, such as a stage

•  A related series of movements, gestures, and facial expressions organized into an integrated, 

coherent, and expressive compositional whole

•  Silent action, performed without dialog, although sound effects or a musical accompaniment 

may accentuate the performer’s actions or complement the work as a whole

•  A story, theme, or abstract composition conveyed through movement

•  A presentation before an audience

NOTE: Even though a performer may accentuate the performance of choreography or a pantomime 
with sound effects or a musical accompaniment, a claim in “choreography” or “pantomime” will not 
extend to any sounds or music, although it may be possible to claim these elements separately. 

Publication Before January 1, 1978

The copyright law in effect before 1978 did not mention choreography or pantomimes as works 
protected by copyright. It may be possible to register dance movements published prior to January 
1, 1978, if they qualify as a “dramatic work.” That means a work must tell a story, develop a character, 
or express a theme or emotion by means of specific dance movements and physical actions. For cho-
reography and pantomimes created or first published after January 1, 1978, a choreographic work 
may present a story, or it may be an abstract composition. For more information on registering 
choreographic and dramatic works published before January 1, 1978, see chapter 2100, section 2122.3, 
of the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices.

Fixation

To qualify for registration, a choreographic work or pantomime must be fixed in a tangible medium 
of expression in such a way that reveals the movements in sufficient detail to permit the work to be 
performed in a consistent and uniform manner. Acceptable formats of fixation for choreographic 
works and pantomimes include

•  Dance notation such as Labanotation and Benesh Dance Notation

•  Video recordings of a performance

•  Textual descriptions, photographs, or drawings 

2

Copyright Registration of Choreography and PantomimeCategories of Dance and Movement Not Protected By Copyright

Some categories of dance and nondance movements, such as sports activities and performance  
art, do not fall within the subject matter protected under the Copyright Act even though they  
may be unique. 

Commonplace Movements or Gestures

Individual movements or dance steps by themselves are not copyrightable, such as the basic waltz 
step, the hustle step, the grapevine, or the second position in classical ballet. The U.S. Copyright 
Office cannot register short dance routines consisting of only a few movements or steps with minor 
linear or spatial variations, even if a routine is novel or distinctive. 

Examples of commonplace movements or gestures that do not qualify for registration as choreo-

graphic works or pantomimes include

•  A set of movements whereby a group of people spell out letters with their arms

•  Yoga positions

•  A celebratory end zone dance move or athletic victory gesture

Social Dances 

For copyright purposes, choreographic works are a subset of dance and are not synonymous with 
dance. The drafters of the copyright law also made clear that choreographic works do not include 
social dance steps and simple routines. Registrable choreographic works are typically intended to 
be executed by skilled performers before an audience. By contrast, uncopyrightable social dances 
are generally intended to be performed by members of the public for the enjoyment of the danc-
ers themselves. Social dances, simple routines, and other uncopyrightable movements cannot be 
registered as separate and distinct works of authorship, even if they contain a substantial amount of 
creative expression. 

Examples of social dances not protected by copyright include

•  Ballroom dances

•  Folk dances

•  Line dances

•  Square dances

•  Swing dances

Ordinary Motor Activities and Athletic Movements

Functional physical movements, feats of physical skill or dexterity, and ordinary motor activities—in 
and of themselves—are not eligible for registration as choreography because these movements do 
not represent the type of authorship that Congress intended to protect as choreography.

3

Copyright Registration of Choreography and PantomimeExamples of ordinary motor activities not registrable as choreographic works or pantomimes include

•  General exercise routines

•  Athletic activities, such as a new tennis swing, a golf swing, or a unique slam-dunk maneuver

•  Feats of physical skill or dexterity

•  Skateboarding or snowboarding tricks 

•  Yoga poses and sequences

•  A compilation of any of the above types of movements

Routines Not Performed by Humans

Choreographic works and pantomimes must be intended for execution by humans. Dances, routines, 
or other organized forms of movement intended to be performed by animals, machines, or other  
animate or inanimate objects are not copyrightable as choreography or pantomime and cannot 
be registered with the U.S. Copyright Office.

Examples of works not protectable as choreography or pantomimes that fall into this category include

•  Dressage routines

•  Skits and routines for trained animals to perform

•  Movement routines created for robots, machines, or other inanimate objects to perform

•  Installation art or sculptures incorporating moving parts

Compilations

To be copyrightable, a compilation of movements or steps must fall within one or more of the 
categories of copyrightable subject matter under section 102(a) of the Copyright Act. A compila-
tion of social dances, simple routines, or other uncopyrightable movements may not qualify as a 
compilation if the author’s selection, coordination, or arrangement of steps or movements does not 
result in an expressive compositional whole that constitutes copyrightable subject matter under the 
Copyright Act.

Examples of compilations that are not copyrightable as choreography or pantomimes include

•  A series of aerobic exercises

•  A yoga sequence 

•  A complicated routine consisting of classical ballet positions or other types of dance move-

ments intended for use in a fitness class

Derivative Choreographies and Pantomimes

A derivative choreographic work is a work that is based on or derived from one or more preexisting 
works, regardless of whether the preexisting work is a choreographic work, a pantomime, or any 
other type of work listed in section 102(a) of the Copyright Act. Typically, derivative choreography is 
a new version of a preexisting choreographic work or an entirely new work that combines preexist-
ing choreography with a substantial amount of new material. 

4

Copyright Registration of Choreography and PantomimeTo be registrable, the new material that the choreographer contributed to the work must be 
independently created and it must contain a sufficient amount of creativity. Simply making minor 
changes or trivial additions to a preexisting choreographic work, or adding movements to a social 
dance would not satisfy this requirement. 

NOTE
1. This circular is intended as an introduction to the U.S. Copyright Office’s practices and procedures 
for registering choreographies and pantomimes. The authoritative source for U.S. copyright law 
is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United States Code. Copyright Office regulations are 
codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Copyright Office practices and procedures are 
summarized in the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, cited as the 
Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the Compendium are available on the Copyright 
Office website at www.copyright.gov.

5

Copyright Registration of Choreography and PantomimeFor Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,  
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or  
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time, 
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by 
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message. 

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office 
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 52  REVISED: 10/2022 

PRINT: 00 /0000 — 0,000

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov