56

Copyright Registration for
Sound Recordings

A sound recording is generally a 

recorded performance, often of 

another work. It must be fixed—

captured in a medium from which 

it can be perceived, reproduced, or 

otherwise communicated—in a 

digital track, disc, tape, or other 

format. This circular introduces legal 

concepts and registration issues 

related to sound recordings. It covers

•  Distinction between sound 

recordings and other works

•  Completing an application

•  Deposit requirements

•  Registering multiple sound 

recordings

•  Scope of copyright protection

This circular provides general information about the require-
ments for registering sound recordings with the U.S. Copy-
right Office. For specific information about this topic, see 
chapter 800 of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Practices, 
Third Edition.1

What is a Sound Recording?

The Copyright Act defines sound recordings as “works that 
result from the fixation of a series of musical, spoken, or 
other sounds but not including sounds accompanying a 
motion picture or other audiovisual work.” Generally, a 
sound recording is a recorded performance, often of another 
work. A sound recording must be fixed, meaning that the 
sounds must be captured in a medium from which they can 
be perceived, reproduced, or otherwise communicated. The 
author may fix the sounds in a digital track, disk, tape, or 
other format.

Common examples of sound recordings include an audio 

recording of:

•  A person singing a song or playing a musical instrument.

•  A person reading a book or delivering a lecture.

•  A group of persons hosting a podcast or performing a 

radio play.

•  A person speaking, a dog barking, a bird singing, wind 

chimes ringing, or other sounds from the natural world 
(assuming the recording contains a sufficient amount of 
production authorship).

A sound recording typically includes the contributions of 
the parties whose performance is captured in the recording 
and the parties who captured and processed those sounds to 
make the final recording. Short sound recordings may lack 

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR a sufficient amount of authorship to warrant copyright protection, just as words and short textual 
phrases are not copyrightable. Sound recordings captured by purely mechanical means without 
originality of any kind also lack a sufficient amount of authorship to warrant copyright protection.

Sound Recordings Distinguished from Underlying Creative Works

Sound recordings often contain other separate copyrightable creative works, such as songs, plays, 
lectures, or readings. The copyright in a sound recording covers the recording itself. It does not cover 
the music, lyrics, words, or other underlying content embodied in that recording. For example, the 
song “Rolling in the Deep” authored by Adele and Paul Epworth and a recording of Aretha Franklin 
singing “Rolling in the Deep” are two distinct works. The underlying music and lyrics are a “musical 
work,” and a recording of an artist performing that song is a “sound recording.”

This circular focuses on registration issues involving sound recordings. It does not address registra-

tion of the music, lyrics, or other content that may be embodied in the recording itself. For informa-
tion on registering a song, book, or other content that may be embodied in a sound recording, see 
Copyright Registration for Musical Compositions (Circular 50) and chapter 700 of the Compendium. For 
information on registering a sound recording together with the content embodied in that recording, 
see Copyright Registration of Musical Compositions and Sound Recordings (Circular 56A).

Sound Recordings Distinguished from the Sounds Accompanying a Motion Picture

There is a legal distinction between a sound recording and the soundtrack for a motion picture 
or other audiovisual work. The Copyright Act states that “sounds accompanying a motion picture 
or audiovisual work” are not sound recordings. These types of sounds are considered part of the 
motion picture or audiovisual work.

Common examples of works that do not qualify as sound recordings include:

•  The soundtrack for a cartoon, documentary, or major motion picture.

•  The soundtrack for an online video, music video, or concert video.

•  A musical performance during a scene or during the credits for a motion picture.

Sound Recordings Distinguished from Phonorecords

A sound recording is not the same as a phonorecord. A phonorecord is the statutory term for a 
physical object that contains a sound recording, such as a digital audio file, a compact disc, or an LP. 
The term “phonorecord” includes any type of object that may be used to store a sound recording, 
including digital formats such as .mp3 and .wav files.

Derivative Sound Recordings

A derivative sound recording is an audio recording that incorporates preexisting sounds, such as 
sounds that were previously registered or published or sounds that were fixed before February 15, 
1972. The preexisting recorded sounds must be rearranged, remixed, or otherwise altered in sequence 

2

Copyright Registration for Sound Recordingsor character, or the recording must contain additional new sounds. The new or revised sounds must 
contain at least a minimum amount of original sound recording authorship.

Examples of derivative sound recordings include:

•  A mashup comprising tracks and sounds from multiple sources.

•  Additional tracks added to a previously published album.

Mechanical changes or processes, such as a change in format, declicking, or noise reduction, gener-

ally do not contain enough original authorship to warrant registration.

Registering a Sound Recording

To register a claim to copyright in a sound recording, you must submit the following to the Copyright 
Office: (1) a completed application form; (2) a nonrefundable filing fee; and (3) the required “deposit ” 
of your work. This circular highlights some common issues in registering a sound recording with the 
Copyright Office. For more guidance in registering a sound recording, see chapter 800, section 803.9 
of the Compendium. For general registration issues, see Copyright Registration (Circular 2).

Completing the Application

When completing an online application, the Copyright Office offers the following tips.

Type of Work 

•  When you begin an application, select the “Sound Recording” option on the “Type of Work” 
screen. The questions you encounter when filling out the application are based on the choice 
you make at the beginning of the application. If you select the wrong option you will need to 
start over.

Title 

•  Provide the title exactly as it appears on the work itself.

Publication

“Publication” occurs when phonorecords of a work are distributed to the public by sale, transfer of 
ownership, or by rental, lease, or lending. Offering to distribute phonorecords to a group of persons 
for the purpose of further distribution or publicly performing the work also constitutes publication. 
Simply performing a sound recording publicly does not constitute publication.

•  If the work has not been published, state that the work is “unpublished.” 

•  If the work has been published, give the month, day, and year that phonorecords were first dis-
tributed to the public or first offered to a group of persons for further distribution or public 
performance.

Author 

•  The author of a sound recording is the performer featured in the recording and the producer 

who captured and processed the sounds that appear in the final recording.

3

Copyright Registration for Sound Recordings•  If the performer or producer created the sound recording during the course of his or her 

employment under a typical employment relationship, then the sound recording is a work 
made for hire, and the employer is the author of the sound recording.

•  If the performer or producer created the sound recording for a third party as a compilation or 
contribution to a collective work, and if the parties agreed in writing that the sound recording 
will be a “work made for hire,” then the third party is the author of the work.

For more information on works made for hire, see Works Made for Hire (Circular 30).

Type of Authorship 

•  When registering a sound recording, check the box for “Sound Recording”

•  When registering artwork, photographs, or text of liner notes, include a brief statement to that 

effect in the “Other” field.

•  When registering a compilation or a collective work (see below), state “compilation of sound 

recordings” in the “Other” field.

Limitation of Claim

•  When registering a derivative sound recording, identify the preexisting material in the “mate-
rial excluded” field and identify the new material in the “new material included” field. If the 
preexisting material has been registered with the Copyright Office, include the registration 
number and year.

Submitting the Deposit Copies of the Work

To register your sound recording, you must submit the work to the Copyright Office. Once a deposit 
has been submitted, it becomes part of the public record and cannot be returned.

When registering a sound recording that is unpublished or published solely in a digital form, the 

Copyright Office strongly encourages you to submit the deposit as a digital file uploaded through 
the online registration system. Do not also submit a physical phonorecord, such as a CD, flash drive, 
or other physical storage device. Each file must be uploaded in an acceptable file format and each 
uploaded file must not exceed 500 MB in size.

When you are registering a sound recording published in a physical format, such as a compact 
disc or LP, submit the work in the physical format, even if there is a corresponding digital version. 
To submit a physical copy of your work after completing an online application, print a shipping slip 
from the bottom of the “Submit Your Work” screen and send the shipping slip and deposit in the 
same package to the address given on the shipping slip. To submit a physical copy of your work with 
a paper application, complete Form SR and submit the deposit in the same package with the appli-
cation and the filing fee.

If your sound recording has been published in the United States, you may need to comply with 
the “best edition” requirement by sending two copies of the “best” edition that exists at the time of 
registration. The “best” edition generally is the highest quality edition that has been publicly distrib-
uted in the United States. The Library of Congress has identified the following list, in descending 
order, of what it considers to be the best edition for sound recordings:

4

Copyright Registration for Sound Recordings1.  Compact disc

2.  Vinyl disc

3.  Open-reel tape

4.  Cartridge tape

5.  Cassette tape

For example, if the work was published both on compact disc and vinyl disc before the date of 
the application to register the work, you should submit the compact disc rather than the vinyl disc.
If your sound recording has not been published in any of the formats listed above, you may 

upload a digital file that contains any published version of the work.

Registering Multiple Sound Recordings

As a general rule, you must submit a separate application, filing fee, and deposit for each work you 
want to register. It may be possible to register multiple sound recordings with one application if they 
qualify for one of the following special registration accommodations.

Group Registration of Unpublished Sound Recordings

You may register up to ten unpublished sound recordings using the online group registration option 
of unpublished works if all of the recordings were created by the same author or authors and all of 
the authors are named as copyright claimants. For more information, see Multiple Works (Circular 34).

Example

Sue Smith and Joe Jones co-create five unpublished sound recordings, and co-own the 
copyright. They may register the five unpublished sound recordings on one application. The 
registration will cover all five sound recordings.

Collective Work

You may register multiple sound recordings as a “collective work” if they have been assembled 
together into a collective whole, such as a digital album or compact disc. The registration will cover 
the copyrightable authorship in the selection, coordination, or arrangement of the collective work 
as a whole. It also may cover each individual sound recording if (1) the collective work and the indi-
vidual sound recordings are owned by the same party, and (2) the individual sound recordings have 
not been previously published or previously registered and are not in the public domain.

Examples

This year, the Oldies Recording Company published a “best of ” album titled “Greatest Hits from 
the Age of Aquarius” featuring sound recordings originally published in the late 1960s. The 
Oldies Recording Company may register “Greatest Hits from the Age of Aquarius” as a collec-
tive work. The registration will cover the authorship involved in creating the album as a whole, 
but will not cover the individual sound recordings because they were previously published.

5

Copyright Registration for Sound RecordingsABC Records, Inc., publishes a new album containing twelve new tracks that were never before 
published. ABC Records owns the copyright in both the album and the individual tracks. ABC 
Records may register the album as a collective work. The registration will cover both the album 
and the sound recordings because the copyright in both the sound recordings and the album 
are owned by the same party.

Unit of Publication

You may register multiple sound recordings as well as accompanying text and artwork as a “unit of 
publication,” if they were physically packaged or bundled together and if all of the recordings were 
first published together as that integrated unit. In addition, the entity that bundles the works together 
as the integrated unit must be the claimant in all the works that are submitted for registration.

Example

ABC Records bundles ten sound recordings on a CD with an insert containing text and pho-
tographs, distributes the packaged unit to the general public, and owns the copyright in the 
sound recordings, text, and photographs. ABC Records may register the sound recordings, text, 
and photographs with one application as a unit of publication. The registration will cover all 
copyrightable content in the sound recordings, text, and photographs.

For more information concerning these special registration accommodations, see Multiple Works 

(Circular 34).

Copyright Protection in Sound Recordings

Generally, the owner of a sound recording does not have the exclusive right to publicly perform that 
work under the Copyright Act. However, the owner of a sound recording does have the exclusive 
right to publicly perform a sound recording by means of a digital audio transmission. 

Before February 15, 1972, federal copyright law did not protect sound recordings, but common 
law, or in some cases statutes enacted in certain states, generally did. In 1971, Congress amended the 
copyright law to provide federal copyright protection for sound recordings fixed and first published 
with a statutory copyright notice on or after February 15, 1972. All sound recordings created after 
January 1, 1978, are automatically protected by copyright. A sound recording is considered created 
when it is “fixed” in a phonorecord for the first time. Neither registration in the Copyright Office 
nor publication is required for protection under the present law.

Before March 1, 1989, the use of copyright notice was mandatory on all copies or phonorecords 
of published works, and any work first published before that date should have carried a notice. The 
copyright notice is optional for works published on and after March 1, 1989. For more information 
about copyright notice, see Copyright Notice (Circular 3).

The Uruguay Round Agreements Act, which became effective on January 1, 1996, restored copy-
right protection for certain unpublished foreign sound recordings fixed before February 15, 1972, 
and certain foreign sound recordings that were published without notice. For further information 
concerning restored sound recordings, see Copyright Restoration Under the URAA (Circular 38B).

6

Copyright Registration for Sound Recordingsnote
1. This circular is intended as an introduction to registering sound recordings. The authoritative 
source for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United States Code. Copy-
right Office regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Copyright Office 
practices and procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright 
Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the Compendium are 
available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

7

Copyright Registration for Sound RecordingsFor Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,  
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or  
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time, 
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by 
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message. 

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office 
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 56  REVISED: 03 /2021 

PRINT: 00 /0000 — 0,000

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov