5
4
r
a
l
u
c
r
i
C

w

Copyright Registration 
for Motion Pictures, 
Including Video 
Recordings

Motion pictures are audiovisual works consisting of a series of related images 
that, when shown in succession, impart an impression of motion, together with 
any accompanying sounds. Motion pictures are typically embodied in film,  
videotape, or videodisk.

Copyright in a motion picture is automatically secured when the work is 
created and “fixed” in a copy. Only the expression fixed in a motion picture 
(camera work, dialogue, sounds, and so on) is protected under copyright.  
Copyright does not cover the idea or concept behind a work or any characters 
portrayed in it.

Live telecasts that are not fixed in copies and screenplays or treatments of 

future motion pictures do not constitute fixations of motion pictures.

Publication

Publication of a motion picture takes place when one or more copies are distrib-
uted to the public by sale, rental, lease, or lending or when an offering is made to 
distribute copies to a group (wholesalers, retailers, broadcasters, motion picture 
distributors, and the like) for purposes of further distribution or public perfor-
mance. Offering to distribute a copy of a motion picture for exhibition during a 
film festival may be considered publication of that work.

For an offering to constitute publication, copies must be made and be ready for 

distribution. The performance itself of a motion picture (for example, showing it 
in a theater, on television, or in a school room) does not constitute publication.

When a motion picture is published, all the components embodied in it are 
also considered to be published, including the music, the script, and the sounds. 
Thus, if a motion picture made from a screenplay is published, the screenplay is 
published to the extent it is contained in the published work.

Copyright Notice 

Before March 1, 1989, the use of a copyright notice was  required on all pub-
lished works, and any work first published before that date should have carried 
a notice. For works first published on or after March 1, 1989, use of the copy-
right notice is optional. For more information, see Circular 3, Copyright Notice.

2  45.0712

 
Copyright Registration 

An application for copyright registration contains three 
essential elements: a completed application form, a non- 
refundable filing fee, and a nonreturnable deposit—that is, a 
copy or copies of the work being registered and “deposited” 
with the Copyright Office.

There are two ways to apply for copyright registration. 

Online registration is the preferred way to register basic 
claims for literary works; visual arts works; performing arts 
works, including motion pictures; sound recordings; and 
single serials. Advantages include a lower fee; the fastest pro-
cessing time; online status tracking; secure online payment 
by credit or debit card, electronic check, or Copyright Office 
deposit account; and the ability to upload certain categories 
of deposits as electronic files. To access online registration, 
go to the Copyright Office website and click on electronic 
Copyright Office.

You can also apply using paper forms. To access fill-in 

versions of Form PA (performing arts works) and Form 
CON (continuation sheet for paper applications), go to the 
Copyright Office website and click on Forms. Complete the 
form(s) on your personal computer, print them out, sign 
and date them, and mail them with a check or money order 
and a deposit. Blank forms can also be printed out and com-
pleted by hand or requested by postal mail (limit two copies 
of any one form by mail). 

Note: Copyright Office fees are subject to change. For current 

fees, check the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov, 

write the Copyright Office, or call (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-

0778 (toll free). 

Effective Date of Registration

When the Copyright Office issues a registration certificate, it 
assigns as the effective date of registration the date it received 
all required elements—an application, a nonrefundable 
filing fee, and a nonreturnable deposit—in acceptable form, 
regardless of how long it takes to process the application and 
mail the certificate.

You do not have to receive your certificate before you 
publish or produce your work, nor do you need permis-
sion from the Copyright Office to place a copyright notice 
on your work. However, the Copyright Office must have 
acted on your application before you can file a suit for copy-
right infringement, and certain remedies, such as statutory 
damages and attorney’s fees, are available only for acts of 
infringement that occur after the effective date of registra-

Copyright Registration for Motion Pictures ·  2

tion. If a published work was infringed before the effective 
date of registration, those remedies may also be available if 
the effective date of registration is no later than 90 days after 
the first publication of the work. 

If you apply online for copyright registration, you will 

receive an email notification when your application is 
received. If you apply on a paper form, you will not receive 
an acknowledgment of your application. If you want to 
know the date that the Copyright Office receives your paper 
application or your deposit, use registered or certified mail 
and request a return receipt.

The Copyright Office cannot honor requests to make cer-
tificates available for pickup or to send them by express mail.

Deposit Requirements for Registration 

You must send a deposit copy and a description of the work 
being registered. The nature of the copy and description may 
vary, depending on the factors below.

Published Motion Pictures
For all published motion pictures, send

1  a separate description of the nature and general content 

of the work—for example, a shooting script, a synopsis, or 
a pressbook; and

2  one complete copy of the work. A copy is complete if it 
is undamaged and free of splices and defects that would 
interfere with viewing the work. 

For motion pictures first published in the United States, 
send one complete copy of the best edition. Where two or 
more editions are published in the United States, the best 
edition is the one preferred by the Library of Congress. Cur-
rently, the Library accepts in descending order of preference:

Film, rather than another medium

1  Preprint material, by special arrangement

2  70mm positive print, if original production nega-

tive is greater than 35mm

3  35mm positive prints

4  16mm positive prints

Videotape formats

1  Betacam SP

2  Digital Beta (Digibeta)

3  DVD

4  VHS cassette

For motion pictures first published abroad, send one 
complete copy as first published or one copy of the best 
edition.

tors, including how often the applicant files registrations. For 
details, call the Motion Picture, Broadcasting, and Recorded 
Sound Division at (202) 707-8572 or write to

Copyright Registration for Motion Pictures ·  3

Unpublished Motion Pictures
For unpublished motion pictures, send

1  a separate description of the work, and

2  a copy of the work containing all the visual and aural  ele-
ments covered by the registration. An alternative deposit 
option is available for unpublished motion pictures. For 
information, call (202) 707-8182.

Motion Pictures Not Viewable by Copyright Office Staff
The Copyright Office does not have equipment to view 
motion pictures in certain formats, including 1" open-reel 
videotapes and 8mm videocassettes. If you send one of these 
formats, please include the credits in the separate written 
description. If the work was first published before March 1, 
1989, the Copyright Office must examine the work for the 
required copyright notice. In this case, please send the best 
edition copy and a copy that the Copyright Office can view  —
for example, a half-inch VHS videocassette.

Exceptions to Normal Deposit Requirement 

In certain circumstances, special relief from the normal 
deposit requirement is available. In addition, the Motion 
Picture Agreement provides for alternative deposit proce-
dures for published motion pictures.

Special Relief
Where it is unusually difficult or impossible to comply with 
the deposit requirement for a particular motion picture, 
you can submit a written request for special relief from the 
normal requirement. Address the request to the chief of the 
Performing Arts Division, state why you cannot provide 
the required copy, and describe the nature of the substitute 
copy being deposited. Include this letter with the registration 
material. 

The decision to grant or deny special relief is based on 
the acquisitions policies and archival considerations of the 
Library of Congress and the examining requirements of the 
Copyright Office.

Motion Picture Agreement
The Motion Picture Agreement establishes several alternative 
deposit procedures for published motion pictures. How well 
it will serve a particular applicant depends on several fac-

Library of Congress 
Motion Picture, Broadcasting, and Recorded Sound Division 
attn: Reference Assistant 
101 Independence Avenue SE 
Washington, DC 20540

Mandatory Deposit for Published U.S. Works

 The owner of copyright or the owner of the exclusive right 
of publication of a motion picture published in the United 
States has a legal obligation to deposit in the Copyright 
Office within three months of publication in the United 
States one complete copy of the best edition of the work 
and a description of it. Failure to deposit this copy after the 
Copyright Office demands it can result in fines and other 
penalties.

Depositing the required copy with an application and 
fee for copyright registration simultaneously satisfies any 
mandatory deposit requirement for the motion picture. Sat-
isfying the mandatory deposit requirement alone does not 
provide the benefits of copyright registration. For details, see 
Circular 7d, Mandatory Deposit of Copies or Phonorecords for 
the Library of Congress. 

Motion Picture Collection

The Library of Congress holds the nation’s central collection of 
books, recordings, photographs, maps, audiovisual works, and 
other research materials. Many of the Library’s acquisitions are 
obtained through copyright deposits. The material acquired 
by this means is critical to the Library’s recognized success in 
maintaining superior and comprehensive collections.

Motion pictures form an essential part of the Library’s 
holdings. As feature films, television programs, videos, and 
other audiovisual media become increasingly popular as a 
means of communication, education, and entertainment in 
our society, they also form a greater part of our historical 
record. The preservation facilities and bibliographic control 
provided by the Library ensure that many of these works will 
be available to future generations.

Motion Pictures First Published Before 1978

For Further Information

Copyright Registration for Motion Pictures ·  4

By Internet
Circulars, announcements, regulations, application forms, 
and other materials are available on the Copyright Office 
website at www.copyright.gov.

By Telephone
For general information about copyright, call the Copyright 
Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-
0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 
5:00 pm, eastern time, Monday through Friday, except fed-
eral holidays. Recorded information is available 24 hours a 
day. To request paper application forms or circulars, call (202) 
707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.  

By Regular Mail
Write to

Library of Congress
Copyright Office–COPUBS
101 Independence Avenue, SE
Washington, DC 20559

Works first published with notice before 1978 had an original 
28-year term of copyright, and registration had to be made 
within that first term. The copyright could then be renewed 
in the 28th year for an additional term. Legislation enacted 
in 1992 made renewal automatic for works copyrighted 
between January 1, 1964, and December 31, 1977, and made 
it possible to register such works during their renewal term 
provided they were published with an acceptable notice. 
Such registrations must be made on Form RE accompa-
nied by Form RE/Addendum. If such works were registered 
during their original term, their registrations can be renewed 
at any time during their renewal terms with just Form RE.

To access fill-in versions of Form RE and Form RE/Adden-
dum, go to the Copyright Office website, www.copyright.gov, 
and click on Forms. Complete the form(s) on your personal 
computer, print them out, sign and date them, and mail 
them with a check or money order and deposit (see below). 
Blank forms can also be printed out and completed by hand 
or requested by postal mail (limit two copies of any one form 
by mail).

Deposit Requirement
If you register a claim in a motion picture first published 
before 1978 using Form RE and Form RE/Addendum, 
deposit one copy of the work as first published, that is, one 
of the first prints or tapes made from the master and 
distributed. If that is not available, deposit one complete 
copy of the original footage as first published that is 
reproduced in an acceptable format showing the copyright 
notice. See Circular 3, Copyright Notice, for notice 
requirements.

If you renew the registration of a work registered in 
its original term using Form RE, no additional deposit is 
required. For more information, see Circular 15, Renewal of 
Copyright.

Form GATT
A 1994 amendment to the U. S. copyright law included in the 
Uruguay Round Agreements Act (URAA) restored copyright 
in certain foreign works that had previously been in the 
public domain (including those that had entered the public 
domain because of publication without the required notice). 
Works whose copyrights have been restored can be registered 
on Form GATT. See Circular 38b, Highlights of Copyright 
Amendments Contained in the Uruguay Round Agreements Act, 
for more information.

U. S. Copyright Office 

·  Library of Congress 

·  101 Independence Avenue SE 

·  Washington, DC 20559 

·  www.copyright.gov

circular 45  reviewed: 03 ⁄ 2014  Printed on recycled paper 

u. s. government printing office:  2014-xxx-xxx ⁄ xx,xxx

