4

Copyright Of f ice Fees

The Register of Copyrights sets fees 

for the Office’s services. This circular 

provides details about the Office’s fee 

schedule, its services, and acceptable 

methods of payment. Topics covered 

include

•  Registering a copyright claim

•  Recording a copyright-related 

document

•  Searching the Office’s records

•  Obtaining copies of records

•  Preregistering

•  Requesting expedited service

•  Requesting reconsideration of a 

refused claim

•  Securing full-term retention of a 

deposit

The Register of Copyrights has authority under section 708 
of the Copyright Act to set fees for specified services provided 
by the Copyright Office.1 These services included registering 
claims to copyright, recording documents, and searching 
copyright records. The law gives the Register authority to set 
fees for other services based on the cost of providing them. 
To adjust fees, the Register must prepare a study for Congress 
proposing a new fee schedule. The proposed new fees take 
effect 120 days after delivery of the report unless Congress 
enacts a law disapproving the proposed fee schedule.

The Copyright Office charges the fees specified below for 
the services described. A fee list appears at the end of the cir-
cular, excluding Licensing Division service fees, which appear 
in a separate circular, see Copyright Office Licensing Division 
Service Fees (Circular 76). “Payment of Fees” below provides 
information about payment methods.

Copyright Registrations

The Copyright Office charges a fee to register copyright 
claims based on the method you use to apply and the type 
of work you are registering. An application for copyright 
registration contains three essential elements: a completed 
application form, a nonrefundable filing fee, and a non-
returnable deposit—that is, a copy or copies of the work 
being registered and “deposited” with the Copyright Office. 
Generally, you should prepare a separate application, filing 
fee, and deposit for each work you submit. In certain situa-
tions, multiple works can be registered with one application. 
For more information about registering multiple works, see 
Multiple Works (Circular 34).

Electronic Registration

Electronic registration is the preferred way to register basic 
claims for literary works; visual arts works; performing arts 
works, including motion pictures; sound recordings; and 

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR single serial issues. Electronic registration is also required for group registration of serials. Benefits 
of electronic registration include faster processing times, status tracking, online payment, and the 
option to upload certain categories of works or to send a physical copy of a work. The standard 
filing fee for electronic registration is $65 for basic claims. However, the filing fee is $45 if you reg-
ister one work, not made for hire, and you are the only author and claimant. To access electronic 
registration, go to the Copyright Office’s website at www.copyright.gov. For information about 
works made for hire, see Works Made for Hire (Circular 30).

Registration Applications That Must Be Completed Online

You must complete certain applications through the Office’s electronic registration system. These 
include applications for group registration of contributions to periodicals (GRCP), published photo-
graphs (GRPPH), unpublished photographs (GRUPH), unpublished works (GRUW), serials (GRSE), 
newsletters (GRNL), and newspapers; applications to register an architectural work; and applications 
to supplement or amplify an existing registration (Supplementary Registration). Supplementary reg-
istrations to amplify or correct a GATT registration, renewal registration, or group registration for a 
nonphotographic database must be completed by paper.

Registration with Paper Forms

You can also register using fill-in forms TX (literary works); VA (visual arts works); PA (performing 
arts works, including motion pictures); SR (sound recordings); and SE (single serial issues). Form CON 
is a continuation sheet available for applications that require more space than the standard fill-in 
forms. Complete the form for the type of work you are registering, print it out, sign it, and mail it 
with a check or money order and your deposit. You can also request blank forms by postal mail. The 
fee for a basic registration using one of these forms is $125 payable by check or money order. Fees for 
other registrations submitted by paper may be found below. Credit cards are not accepted for filings 
on these forms unless the forms are hand-delivered to the Public Information Office. To access 
forms, go to the Copyright Office website and select Forms under the Law and Guidance tab.

Registration Applications That Must Be Completed on Paper

You must complete certain applications on paper and mail them to the Copyright Office with 
the appropriate fee and deposit. These include applications to register vessel designs (Form 
D-VH); mask works (Form MW); renewal of copyright claims (Form RE); and works in which the U.S. 
copyright was restored under the 1994 Uruguay Round Agreements Act (Form GATT). In addition, 
some types of group submissions also require paper applications, including automated database 
updates that consist mostly of content other than photographs (Form TX).

Recordation of Documents

The Copyright Office charges a fee to record documents pertaining to a copyright, such as a transfer 
of copyright, a will, a license, or a notice of termination. The fee to record a document of any length 
including no more than one work, which is identified by a title and/or registration number, is $125. 
Additional works and alternate identifiers (additional titles and registration numbers) are another 
$60 for each group of ten or fewer additional works and alternate identifiers referenced in the same 
document. When a document is accompanied by an electronic title sheet, additional works and 
alternate identifiers are subject to a reduced fee scale, as shown below. For information on current 
recordation practices see www.copyright.gov/recordation.

2

Copyright Office FeesSearches of Copyright Office Records

The Copyright Office charges a fee when its staff searches the Office’s records for information about 
copyright registrations, renewals, transfers, and other documents relating to the copyright status of 
works. Upon request, the Office will estimate the total cost of a search. The fee for a search estimate 
is $200, which is applicable to the search fee. The hourly search fee, including the preparation of an 
official search report, is $200 with a two-hour minimum.

For general search requests, complete the search estimate form online, call the Records Research 
and Certification Section at (202) 707-6787, or send an email to copycerts@copyright.gov. For litiga-
tion search requests, call (202) 707-6787 or send an e-mail to coplitigationsupport@copyright.gov 
(domestic litigation) or copinternationalsupport@copyright.gov (international litigation). The Office 
will not search to determine whether a work similar to a work of interest has already been registered. 
Such searches are not necessary under copyright law.

note: You can search the Copyright Office’s online database for records created between January 1, 
1978, and the present. You can also visit the Copyright Reading Room, located in Room LM-463 of the 
James Madison Memorial Building of the Library of Congress, 101 Independence Avenue SE,  
Washington DC 20559, to search Copyright Office catalogs, pre-1978 records, and other records.  
See How to Investigate the Copyright Status of a Work (Circular 22) for details.

Copies of Copyright Office Records

The Copyright Office charges a fee for locating or retrieving records, providing additional certifi-
cates of registration, or certifying copyright records. The hourly fee to locate or retrieve nonelec-
tronic records is $200 per hour with a one-hour minimum. The fee to retrieve electronic records 
is $200 per hour with a half-hour minimum; billing occurs thereafter in quarter-hour increments. 
Additional certificates of registration are $55 each. The charge for certifying a record is $200 per 
hour. The certification fee is in addition to fees for other applicable services, such as fees for searches 
or photocopies. To request copies of Copyright Office records, call the Records Research and Certifi-
cation Section at (202) 707-6787 or send an email to copycerts@copyright.gov. Under certain limited 
conditions, copies of copyright deposits may be provided. For more information, see Obtaining 
Access to and Copies of Copyright Office Records and Deposits (Circular 6).

Preregistration

The Copyright Office charges a fee for preregistration. Unpublished works that are being prepared for 
commercial distribution and that fall within certain classes of works may be eligible. The fee is $200. 
Preregistration forms must be filed electronically. The Office does not accept preregistration filings 
on paper, in person, or by regular mail. For more information, see chapter 1600 of the Compendium. 

3

Copyright Office FeesExpedited Services and Special Handling

The Copyright Office charges a fee for expedited registration and recordation services, called “special 
handling.” Special handling is available if you have a compelling need related to pending or prospec-
tive litigation, customs matters, or contract or publishing deadlines. To request special handling, you 
must provide a signed statement explaining why you need it, and you must include a certification that 
the details of your request are correct to the best of your knowledge.

The fee for special handling of qualified applications for registration is $800 per claim. There is an 
additional fee of $50 for each (non-special-handling) claim using the same deposit. The fee for expe-
dited recordation of documents is $550. Special handling fees are not refundable.

The Copyright Office may provide other services on an expedited basis under certain circum-
stances and with prior approval. For example, the Office may provide expedited searches or copies of 
Copyright Office records. For more information and instructions, see Special Handling (Circular 10) 
and chapter 2400, section 2411, of the Compendium.

Requests for Reconsideration (Appeals)

The Copyright Office charges a fee to reconsider a refusal to register a copyright claim. If the Office 
refuses to register your claim to copyright, it will notify you in writing. After such notification, you 
can seek reconsideration of the refusal by sending a letter requesting reconsideration and setting 
forth your objections to the refusal not later than three months after the date that appears on the 
Office’s written refusal. The cost of a first request for reconsideration is $350 per claim. If registra-
tion is again refused, a second request for reconsideration can be submitted. The cost of a second 
reconsideration is $700 per claim. The Copyright Office’s decision in response to the second request 
for reconsideration constitutes final agency action. For more information, see chapter 1700 of the 
Compendium.

Full-Term Retention

The Copyright Office charges a fee for full-term retention of copyright deposits. The Office’s policy 
is to retain published copyright deposits that have not been selected by the Library for its collections 
for 20 years and all unpublished deposits for 120 years. If you want to ensure that the Copyright 
Office’s decision retains your published deposit for the full length of the copyright term, you must 
pay a fee of $540 to cover processing and storage costs for a physical deposit and a fee of $220 to 
cover processing and storage costs for an electronic deposit. Send requests for full-term retention to

U.S. Copyright Office 
Attn: Director of the Office of Public Records and Repositories
101 Independence Avenue SE
Washington DC 20559-6000

For more information, see chapter 2400, section 2410, of the Compendium.

4

Copyright Office FeesPayment Processing Service Charges

The Copyright Office charges a fee of $285 for an overdraft of a deposit account; $500 for a dishon-
ored replenishment check for a deposit account; and $115 for an uncollectible or nonnegotiable check.

Other Claims and Services

Fees for other types of services and claims, such as processing secure tests and providing deposit 
receipts, appear in the fee list at the end of this circular. See section 203.6 of Title 37 of the Code 
of Federal Regulations for a list of fees for requests related to the Freedom of Information Act. For 
detailed information about these and other services, visit the Copyright Office website. 

Payment of Fees

Depending on the service you receive and the method of its delivery, you can pay by credit card; 
deposit account; Automated Clearing House (ACH) debit; currency; or check, money order, or bank 
draft payable to the U.S. Copyright Office. The Copyright Office accepts American Express, Discover, 
MasterCard, and Visa.2

note: Currency is accepted only when a service is provided in person in the Public Information 
Office. The Copyright Office does not accept currency by mail and cannot assume any responsibility 
for the loss of currency sent in payment of copyright fees.

Electronic Services

You can pay by credit card, debit card, or ACH debit for services provided electronically, includ-
ing electronic registration of copyright claims. To administer payment for electronic services, the 
Copyright Office uses Pay.gov, a U.S. Treasury Department system for secure processing of payments 
to federal government agencies. You can also pay for electronic services by debit card or Copyright 
Office deposit account (see below). 

Services by Mail

If you send a service request by postal mail, the only acceptable methods of payment are check 
or money order payable to the U.S. Copyright Office or a Copyright Office deposit account (see 
below). If a check received in payment of a registration or recordation filing fee is returned to the 
Copyright Office as uncollectible, registration or recordation will be delayed until a valid payment 
is received, and a service charge of $30 will be applied.

Services by Phone or in Person

You can pay for some services by credit card when you request them by phone. Call the Records 
Research and Certification Section at (202) 707-6787 to use a credit card to pay for additional 
certificates of registration; copies of documents and deposits; certifications; search and retrieval of 
deposits; expedited processing; or estimating the cost of searching Copyright Office records. 

The Public Information Office accepts credit cards, currency, checks, and money orders in pay-
ment of Copyright Office services requested by walk-in visitors. In addition, you can charge fees for 
on-site use of Copyright Office printers and photocopiers.

5

Copyright Office FeesDeposit Accounts

An individual or organization can establish a deposit account, make advance deposits into that 
account, and charge copyright fees against the balance in the account instead of sending separate 
payments with applications and other requests for services. For more information, see How to Open 
and Maintain a Copyright Office Deposit Account (Circular 5).

Foreign Checks and Money Orders

All foreign checks or money orders must be redeemable without a service or exchange fee through a 
U.S. institution, payable in U.S. dollars, and imprinted with American Banking Association routing 
numbers. Postal money orders and international money orders that are negotiable only at a post 
office are not acceptable.

Refunds

Payments more than $50 in excess of the required fee will be refunded automatically, but refunds of 
$50 or less will be made only upon written request.

To cover administrative and processing costs, fees received in conjunction with certain services 
typically will not be refunded, even when the services cannot be provided. For example, the Copy-
right Office will not refund filing fees received for basic, supplementary, or renewal registration; for 
preregistration; or for special handling, whether or not copyright registration or preregistration is 
ultimately made. 

Before making any refund of fees received for nonregistration services, the Copyright Office will 
deduct an administrative processing fee in an amount equivalent to one hour of the requested ser-
vice or the minimum fee for the service.

Public Information Office

Visit the Copyright Office’s Public Information Office between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., eastern time, 
Monday through Friday, to secure the services described in this circular that are available in person. 

U.S. Copyright Office
James Madison Memorial Building
101 Independence Avenue SE
Washington, DC 20559 

To secure services available by phone, call (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free).

6

Copyright Office FeesCopyright Office Fees

Supplementary Registrations

– Fees in effect as of March 20, 2020 
– For Licensing Division fees, request Circular 76 
– All forms available at www.copyright.gov

Basic Registrations
Each registration must include properly completed 
application form, nonrefundable filing fee, and 
nonreturnable deposit.

Registrations online

$45 

 Single Application (single author, same 
claimant, one work, not for hire)
$65  Standard Application (all other filings)

Registrations on paper

$125 

 Paper filing on Form TX, Form VA,  
Form PA, Form SE, and Form SR

Renewal Registrations
For works published or registered before January 1, 1978

$ 125  Form RE
$ 100 

 Addendum to Form RE (in addition to fee 
for claim)

$ 35 

$ 85 

$ 95 

Group Registrations
To register a group of related claims, where appropriate
 Serials, per issue, with minimum two issues 
(online application only)
 Newspapers or newsletters (online 
application only)
 Contributions to periodicals (online 
application only)
 Published photographs or unpublished 
photographs (online application only)
 Group of unpublished works (online 
application only)
 Group of updates for a photographic 
database (online or paper application)
 Group of updates for a nonphotographic 
database (paper application only)

$ 500 

$250 

$ 85 

$55 

$150 

$100 

 Electronic filing (to correct or amplify a 
completed registration)
 Paper filing for correction or amplification 
of renewal registrations, GATT registrations, 
and group registrations for non-
photographic databases (Form CA)
$100  Form DC (to correct a design registration)

Preregistration
$200 

 Preregistration of certain unpublished 
works

Other Registrations

$ 500  Form D-VH (vessel designs)
$100  Form GATT
$ 150  Form MW (mask works)

Optional Services Related to Registration 

Special Handling
To expedite registration processing of qualiﬁed claims

$ 800  Special handling fee (per claim)

$ 50 

 Additional fee for each (non-special-
handling) claim using the same deposit

Other fees associated with registration

$ 540 

$ 220 

$ 250 

 Full-term retention of published copyright 
deposit (physical deposit)
 Full-term retention of published copyright 
deposit (electronic deposit)
 Secure test examining (per staff member  
per hour)

$ 50  Handling extra copy for certification
 Voluntary cancellation of registration
$ 150 
 Matching unidentified deposit to deposit 
$ 40 
ticket claim (per half hour)

Requests for Reconsideration (Appeals) 
For claims previously refused registration
$ 350  First request (per claim)
$ 700  Second request (per claim)

7

Copyright Office Fees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Copyright Service Fees

Recordation of Documents 
To make public record of assignment of rights or other 
document relating to disposition of copyrighted work

$ 125 

$ 95 

$ 95 

$ 60 

 Recordation of document, including notice 
of intention to enforce (base fee includes 1 
work identified by 1 title and/or registration 
number) (paper filing)
 Recordation of document, including notice 
of intention to enforce (base fee includes 1 
work identified by 1 title and/or registration 
number) (electronic filing)
 Additional transfer (per transfer) (for 
documents recorded under 17 U.S.C. 205)
 Additional works and alternate identifiers 
(per group of 10 or fewer additional works 
and alternate identifiers)

When document is accompanied by electronic title list:

$60  

$225 

$390 

$555 

  $5,550 

$7 

 1 to 50 additional works and alternate 
identifiers 
 51 to 500 additional works and alternate 
identifiers
 501 to 1,000 additional works and alternate 
identifiers
 1,001 to 10,000 additional works and 
alternate identifiers
 10,001 or more additional works and 
alternate identifiers
 Correction of online public catalog data  
due to erroneous electronic title submission 
(per title)

Other fees associated with recordation:

$550  

$75 

$10 

$75 

$50 

 Special handling fee for recordation of a 
document
 Schedule of pre-1972 sound recordings, or 
supplemental schedule of pre-1972 sound 
recordings (single sound recording)
 Additional sound recordings (per group of  
1 to 100 sound recordings)
 Removal of pre-1972 sound recording from 
Office’s database of indexed schedules 
(single sound recording)
 Notice of noncommercial use of pre-1972 
sound recording

$50 

 Opt-out notice of noncommercial use of 
pre-1972 sound recording

Searches of Records
For searching copyright records and preparing official 
report

$ 200  Estimate of search fee (credited to search fee)
$200  Search report (per hour, 2 hour minimum)
 Expedited report (per hour, 1 hour 
$500 
minimum)

$200  Certification of search report (per hour)

Retrievals and Copies of Records 
Retrieval of in-process or completed Copyright Office 
records

$200 

$200 

$200 

 Estimate of retrieval fee (credited to 
retrieval fee)
 Retrieval of paper records (per hour,  
1 hour minimum)
 Retrieval of digital records (per hour, half 
hour minimum, quarter-hour increments)

$ 55  Additional certificate of registration

$ 200 

$ 500 

 Certification of records, including search 
reports (per hour)
 Surcharge for expedited retrievals, 
certification, and copying (per hour, 1 hour 
minimum)

$ 100  Litigation statement (Form LS)

$ 12 

 Copying of Copyright Office records by 
staff (all media)

Removal of Personally Identifiable Information (PII)

$ 100 
$ 60 

Initial request (per registration record)
 Reconsideration of denied request (flat fee)

Miscellaneous Fees

$ 30 

$ 6 

$ 50 

 Receipt for deposit without registration 
(section 407 deposit)
 Designation of agent under section 
512(c)(2) to receive notification of 
claimed infringement or amendment or 
resubmission of agent
 Notice to libraries and archives  
(each additional title $ 20)

$45  Service charge for Federal Express mailing

$1 

 Service charge for delivery of documents via 
fax (per page, seven pages maximum)

8

Copyright Office Fees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Payment Processing Service Charges

$285  Overdraft of deposit account
$500 

 Dishonored replenishment check for 
deposit account

$ 115  Uncollectible or nonnegotiable check

Copyright Ofﬁce fees are subject to change.  
For current fees, check the Copyright Ofﬁce website  
at www.copyright.gov, write the Copyright Ofﬁce, or 
call (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free).

9

Copyright Office Fees 
 
 
notes
1. This circular is intended as an overview of copyright office fees. The authoritative source for U.S. 
copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United States Code. Copyright Office 
regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Copyright Office practices and 
procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, 
cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the Compendium are available on the 
Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.
2. The Copyright Office also accepts credit card payments for filings under the Uruguay Round 
Agreements Act (URAA). These filings include notices of intent (NIEs) to enforce a restored copy-
right under the URAA and claims to copyright made on Form GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs 
and Trade). Debit cards are not accepted. See Copyright Restoration Under the URAA (Circular 38B), 
and Form GATT for details about filing claims under the URAA.

10

Copyright Office Fees11

Copyright Office FeesFor Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,  
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or  
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time, 
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by 
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message. 

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office 
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 4  REVISED: 11/2024 

PRINT: 00/0000 — 0,000

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov