Copyright Restoration 
Under the URAA

Congress passed the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (URAA) in 1994 to  
implement U.S. obligations under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of 
Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) of the World Trade Organization (WTO). 
TRIPS incorporates by reference many obligations under the Berne Convention 
for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works.

The United States signed the Berne Convention in 1989, committing itself to 
grant the same level of copyright protection to works from other Berne countries 
that it provides to works of U.S. nationals.

The United States acceded to TRIPS in 1995 when it joined the WTO. TRIPS 
independently mandates compliance with most Berne provisions and provides 
additional obligations regarding enforcement that are subject to dispute resolu-
tion at the WTO.

Several provisions of the URAA amend U.S. copyright law.¹ This circular 

focuses on amendments to section 104a.

The URAA amended section 104a of the copyright law to restore U.S. copy-

right to certain foreign works that were in the public domain in the United 
States but protected by copyright in their countries of origin.

Restoration of Copyrights

Ownership of a restored copyright vests initially in the author or initial right-
holder, as determined by the law of the restored work’s source country or by the 
owner of an exclusive right in the United States.

Eligibility Requirements

To be eligible, a work must meet all of the following requirements:

1  At the time the work was created, at least one author (or rightholder in the 
case of a sound recording) must have been a national or domiciliary of an 
eligible source country. An eligible source country is a country, other than 
the United States, that is a member of the WTO, a member of the Berne 
Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, or subject to 
a presidential proclamation restoring U.S. copyright protection to works of 
that country on the basis of reciprocal treatment of the works of U.S. nation-
als or domiciliaries.²

2  The work is not in the public domain in the eligible source country through 

expiration of the term of protection.

3  The work is in the public domain in the United States because it did not 
comply with formalities imposed at any time by U. S. law, lacked subject 
matter protection in the United States in the case of sound recordings fixed 
before February 15, 1972, or lacked national eligibility in the United States.³

wCircular 38b2 38b.01134  If published, the work must have been first published in 

Notice of Intent to Enforce

Copyright Restoration Under the URAA  ·  2

an eligible country and not published in the United States 
during the 30-day period following its first publication in 
the eligible country.

Effective Date of Restoration

January 1, 1996, was the effective date of restoration of copy-
right for works from countries that were members of the 
WTO or the Berne Convention on that date. Subsequently, 
the effective date of restoration is the date a newly eligible 
country accedes to the WTO or the Berne Convention or the 
date of a presidential proclamation restoring U.S. copyright 
protection to works of that country.

Term of Copyright

The copyright in any work in which copyright is restored will 
last for the remainder of the term of copyright that the work 
would have enjoyed if the work had never entered the public 
domain in the United States.

Generally, the U. S. copyright term for works published 
before January 1, 1978, lasts for 95 years from the year of first 
publication. Although sound recordings fixed before 1972 
were not then protected by federal copyright, those sound 
recordings will receive the remainder of the term they would 
have received had they been protected by such copyright 
when published. For example, a sound recording published 
in 1925 will be protected until 2020. For works published on 
or after January 1, 1978, the term of copyright is the life of 
the author plus 70 years. For example:
•  A French short story that was first published with-

out copyright notice in 1935 will be treated as if it had 
both been published with a proper notice and properly 
renewed, meaning that its restored copyright will expire 
on December 31, 2030 (95 years after the U. S. copyright 
would have come into existence).

•  A Chinese play from 1983 will be protected until Decem-
ber 31 of the 70th year after the year in which its author 
dies.

•  A Mexican sound recording first published in Mexico in 

1965 will be protected until December 21, 2060.

For details about the duration of copyright protection in 

the United States, see Circular 15a, Duration of Copyright.

Automatic Restoration

Eligible copyrights are restored automatically and no further 
steps need to be taken to make a restored copyright fully 
enforceable against any party other than a reliance party.

Although copyright is restored automatically in eligible 
works, the URAA directs the owner of a restored work to 
notify reliance parties if the owner of the rights in a restored 
work plans to enforce those rights.

A reliance party is typically a business or individual 
who, relying on the public domain status of a work, was 
using it before the enactment of the URAA on December 
8, 1994. For works from any country that was not eligible 
under the URAA as of December 8, 1994, reliance parties are 
those using the work before the date on which the country 
becomes eligible by joining the WTO or the Berne Conven-
tion or as a result of a presidential proclamation.

The URAA authorizes the owner of a right in a restored 

work to either

•  provide actual Notice of Intent to Enforce (NIE) a 

Restored Copyright by contacting a reliance party directly, 
or

•  provide constructive notice by filing an NIE with the 

Copyright Office.

The URAA further directs the Copyright Office to publish 
in the Federal Register, the U. S. government’s publication for 
official agency notices, a list identifying restored works and 
their ownership when NIEs are recorded with the Office. For 
inspection and copying by the public, the Office maintains a 
list identifying all NIEs. See “Public Record” below for details 
about searching NIEs.

Dates for Filing Notices

Owners of restored works can file NIEs directly with reliance 
parties at any time after the date of restoration. Owners of 
restored works from countries that become eligible source 
countries after January 1, 1996, and who want to file NIEs 
with the Copyright Office have two years from the date of 
eligibility to do so. Owners of works whose source coun-
tries were members of the Berne Convention or the WTO 
as of January 1, 1996, and who wanted to file NIEs with the 
Copyight Office had to do so between January 1, 1996, and 
December 31, 1997.⁴ The Office published the first listing of 
NIEs on May 1, 1996 (61 Fed. Reg. 19371), and published lists 
at four-month intervals over the following two years. All of 
the notices are available on the Copyright Office website at 
www.copyright.gov/gatt.html.

Grace Period for Use of Restored Works

A reliance party has a 12-month grace period to sell off previ-
ously manufactured stock, perform or display the relevant 
work publicly, or authorize others to conduct these activities. 
The grace period begins when the reliance party receives 
notice that the owner is enforcing the copyright in the 
restored work. The date runs from either the date of receipt 
of the actual notice or the date of publication of the Federal 
Register issue identifying the work. If notice is provided both 
by Federal Register publication and service on the reliance 
party, the period runs from whichever date is earlier. Except 
for certain reliance parties who created derivative works, a 
reliance party must cease using the restored work when 
the 12-month grace period expires unless the reliance party 
reaches a licensing agreement with the copyright owner for 
continued use of the restored work.

Subsection (d)(3) of the amended section 104a of the 
Copyright Act contains special rules for certain derivative 
works created before December 8, 1994, based on underlying 
restored works. Examples include the translation of a restored 
work or a motion picture based on a restored book or a play. 
A reliance party can continue to exploit such derivative works 
if the reliance party pays the owner of the restored copyright 
reasonable compensation.

Notices Filed in Copyright Office

The following information describes how to file an NIE with 
the Copyright Office. Filing actual notice on a reliance party 
is described later in this circular.

Format

The Copyright Office does not provide a form for filing an 
NIE. However, the final page of this circular and the regula-
tions published in the Federal Register and the Code of Fed-
eral Regulations contain a sample format that can be used to 
file notices. This format is also available on the Copyright 
Office’s website at www.copyright.gov/forms/formnie.txt.

The format includes both required and optional infor-
mation. The Copyright Office strongly recommends use of 
this format. An NIE filed with the Copyright Office should 
be typed or printed legibly by hand on 8 ½" × 11" (or a4, i.e., 
210 × 297 mm) white paper with a 1" (or 3 cm) margin.

Content

The URAA specifies the minimum content of an NIE. The 
notice must be signed by the copyright owner or the owner’s 
agent and must contain the title of the work or a brief 

Copyright Restoration Under the URAA  ·  3

description of the work if it is untitled; an English-language 
translation of the title if the title is in a foreign language; 
any other alternative titles known to the owner by which the 
restored work can be identified; the name of the copyright 
owner of the restored work or owner of an exclusive right 
therein; and the address and telephone number at which the 
owner can be contacted. Although the Copyright Office can 
ask for additional information, failure to provide it will not 
invalidate the NIE.

The Copyright Office has identified certain information 
that is not required by the URAA but is important for proper 
identification of a restored work. It includes:

1  type of work (for example, painting, sculpture, music, 

motion picture, sound recording, or book)

2  name of author(s)

3  source country

4  approximate year of first publication

5  additional identifying information (for example, for 

movies: director, leading actors, screenwriter, animator; for 
photographs: subject matter; for books: editor, publisher, 
contributors)

6  rights owned by the party on whose behalf the NIE is filed 
(for example, the right to reproduce, distribute, publicly 
display, or publicly perform the work or to prepare a 
derivative work based on the work)

7  email address and fax number at which the owner, exclu-

sive rights holder, or agent can be reached

Multiple Works

Multiple works can be included on a single NIE provided 
that (a) each work is identified by title or a brief description 
if untitled; (b) all the works have the same author; (c) all the 
works are owned by the same copyright owner or the owner 
of the exclusive rights therein; and (d) the rights owned by 
the party on whose behalf the notice is being filed are the 
same.

Signature and Certification

The NIE must be signed by the owner of the restored copy-
right, the owner of an exclusive right therein, or an agent of 
the owner. The agency relationship must be established in 
writing and signed by the owner before the NIE is filed.

The NIE must include a certification statement indicating 
that the information given is correct to the best of the filer’s 
knowledge. Any material false statement knowingly made 
with respect to any restored copyright identified in an NIE 
shall void all claims and assertions against reliance parties 

made about such restored copyright. The sample format on 
the final page of this circular includes a certification 
statement.

Fee

The nonrefundable fee for filing an NIE covers a notice in clu-
ding one work. For a notice covering multiple works, there is 
an additional fee for each group of 10 titles. The fee includes 
the cost of acknowledging a recordation by mail after the 
Copyright Office records the NIE.

 See Circular 4, Copyright Office Fees, for details about 
current fees and acceptable payment methods. The fee appli-
cable to NIEs is listed under the subheading Recordation of 
Documents. Note that credit cards are accepted for filings 
under the URAA, even though the Copyright Office does not 
accept credit cards for other filings on paper forms. To pay 
by credit card, a filer must provide in a separate letter the 
name on the credit card being used, the credit card number, 
the expiration date of the credit card, the total amount 
authorized to be charged, and a signature authorizing the 
Copyright Office to charge the fees to that account. To protect 
the security of the credit card number, the credit card number 
must not appear on the NIE, since the notice becomes part of 
the public record.

Filers should ensure that sufficient fees accompany an 
NIE. Filing with insufficient fees can delay the effective date 
of notice.

note: Copyright Office fees are subject to change.  

For current fees, please check the Copyright Office website  

at www.copyright.gov, write the Copyright Office, or call  

(202) 707-3000.

Address

Send NIEs to the following address:

GC / I&R 
P .O. Box 70400, Southwest Station 
Washington, DC 20024 USA

Do not mail them to the Copyright Office.

Notice Filed Directly on Reliance Party

The Copyright Office does not provide a form for serving 
an NIE directly on a reliance party. Filers who wish to do 
so should note that the URAA requires additional informa-
tion for notices served directly on reliance parties compared 
with notices filed with the Copyright Office. Therefore, if a 
filer uses the Copyright Office’s NIE format as a guide for 

Copyright Restoration Under the URAA  ·  4

serving notice directly on a reliance party, the notice will be 
incomplete unless additional details are supplied. The URAA 
specifications follow, with italic type inserted to show the 
additional requirements for serving notice directly:

Notices of Intent to Enforce a Restored Copy-
right served on a reliance party shall be signed by 
the owner or the owner’s agent, shall identify the 
restored work and the work in which the restored 
work is used, if any, in detail sufficient to identify 
them, and shall include an English translation 
of the title, any other alternative titles known to 
the owner by which the work may be identified, 
the use or uses to which the owner objects, and an 
address and telephone number at which the reli-
ance party may contact the owner. If the notice is 
signed by an agent, the agency relationship must 
have been constituted in writing and signed by 
the owner before service of the notice. [Section 
514 of the URAA as found in 17 U.S.C. section 
104a(e)(2)(B) of the URAA]

Direct notice can be served on a reliance party at any time 
after copyright in the work is restored.

Restoration of Copyright Claims

The URAA directs the Copyright Office to provide proce-
dures for registering copyright claims; however, copyright 
owners of restored works need not register their works. 
Copyright law provides that the author or copyright owner 
of a work that is not considered a Berne Convention work 
must register the work or seek registration before he or she 
can bring a copyright infringement action in federal court.⁵ 
The owner of rights in a Berne Convention work, how-
ever, does not have to register before initiating a copyright 
infringement suit.

Registration of Claim in Berne Convention Work

A claim in a restored work can be registered only in the name 
of the owner(s) of the U. S. copyright on the date that the 
application is submitted, that is, in the name of the owner(s) 
of all U. S. rights in that work. A licensee or party whose own-
ership extends only to certain exclusive rights in a work is 
not permitted to register a claim in a restored work in his or 
her name.

Registration Form

Form GATT must be used to register copyright claims in 
works restored under the URAA. To obtain it, go to the Copy-
right Office’s website at www.copyright.gov/forms or call (202) 
707-9100 and leave a recorded message. Alternatively, write to:

Library of Congress 
Copyright Office—COPUBS 
101 Independence Avenue SE 
Washington, DC 20559

Publication

The following guidelines may help in determining required 
publication information for restored works for which regis-
tration is sought.

•  For works published on or after January 1, 1978: Publica-
tion is the distribution anywhere in the world of copies 
or phonorecords of a work to the public by sale or other 
transfer of ownership or by rental, lease, or lending. The 
offering to distribute copies or phonorecords to a group 
of persons for purposes of further distribution, public 
performance, or public display constitutes publication. A 
public performance or display of a work does not in itself 
constitute publication. (17 U.S.C. 101)

•  For works published before January 1, 1978: General pub-
lication may be defined as the act of making one or more 
copies of a work available to the general public, usually 
by the sale, placing on sale, or public distribution of one 
or more copies or sound recordings without express or 
implied restrictions as to future use. Limited publication 
may be defined as the act of making a work available to a 
limited audience for a limited purpose and with express 
or implied restrictions as to future use. Recordings of 
musical compositions were not considered copies of 
recorded music before January 1, 1978. A distribution of a 
recording before that date would constitute publication of 
the sound recording but not the music contained on the 
recording.

Registration Fee

The basic registration fee also applies to a series of works 
published during a calendar year under a single title in epi-
sodes, installments, or issues. Copyright Office fees are sub-
ject to change. For current fees, check the Copyright Office 
website at www.copyright.gov, write the Copyright Office, or 
call (202) 707-3000.

Copyright Restoration Under the URAA  ·  5

Public Record

The information contained in NIEs filed with the Copyright 
Office and in copyright registrations and related documents 
catalogued since January 1, 1978, is available on the Copy-
right Office website at www.copyright.gov/gatt.html and open 
to the public for searching .

Online Searches

Information accessible on the website includes the title of 
a work or a brief description of it if untitled; an English 
translation of the title; the alternative titles, if any; the name 
of the copyright owner or the owner of an exclusive right; 
the author; the type of work, if given; the date of receipt of 
the NIE in the Copyright Office; the date of publication of 
NIE details in the Federal Register; the rights covered by the 
notice, if given; and the address, telephone, and fax number, 
if given, of the copyright owner. Online records are search-
able by the title of a work, the copyright owner or the owner 
of an exclusive right, and the author.

Office Searches

The Copyright Office’s Public Records Reading Room is 
located in Room lm-404 of the James Madison Memorial 
Building of the Library of Congress. Public records of NIEs 
can be searched Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, 
eastern time, except federal holidays. Public terminals are 
available.

Upon payment of a fee, the Copyright Office staff will 
search the records and provide a written report. For details, 
see Circular 22, How to Investigate the Copyright Status of a 
Work, or contact:

Library of Congress 
Copyright Office—RRC 
101 Independence Avenue SE 
Washington, DC 20559 USA 
tel: (202) 707-6850 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free) 
fax: (202) 252-3485
email: copysearch@copyright.gov

Relationship to NAFTA

Under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) 
Implementation Act, some Mexican motion picture owners 
filed timely statements of intent to restore copyright in 
the United States with the Copyright Office.⁶ These works 
continue to enjoy copyright protection, but the protection 
is now governed by section 104a of the Copyright Act as 

amended by the URAA. Copyright owners of these works 
need not file an NIE under the URAA. 

However, other works from NAFTA countries that are in 

the public domain in the United States, including motion 
pictures for which no NAFTA restoration was sought, are 
subject to copyright restoration under the amended section 
104a. NAFTA works that have not been registered can be 
registered using the URAA registration procedures, including 
GATT forms and deposit preferences.

For Further Information

By Internet

Circulars, announcements, regulations, application forms, 
and other related materials are available from the Copyright 
Office website at www.copyright.gov. 

By Telephone

For general information about copyright, call the Copyright 
Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-
0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 
5:00 pm, Monday through Friday, eastern time, except federal 
holidays. Recorded information is available 24 hours a day. 
To request paper application forms or circulars, call (202) 
707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.

By Regular Mail

Write to: 

Library of Congress
Copyright Office–COPUBS
101 Independence Avenue SE
Washington, DC 20559

Copyright Restoration Under the URAA  ·  6

Notes

1. The URAA is contained in Pub. L. No. 103-465, 108 Stat. 4809. See also 

House Document 103-316, 103d Congress, 2d Session, September 27, 

1994, and Statement of Administrative Action Id. 656, 981. The URAA 

amends U. S. copyright law at 17 U.S.C. section 104A, 109 (b). The URAA 

also adds a new chapter 11 to title 17 and a new section 2319A to title 18.

2. The United States has bilateral relations with certain countries, some 

of which may have extended copyright protection to some of their colo-

nies or territories. In addition, the definition of a “United States work” 

has been expanded since the URAA was enacted to include countries 

that are members of the Copyright Treaty of the World Intellectual 

Property Organization (WIPO) and the WIPO Performances and Phono-

grams Treaty.

3. Works in the public domain because of a failure to comply with one 

or more of the formalities required by U. S. copyright law include those 

for which the copyright owner may, for example, have published the 

work without a proper copyright notice, failed to renew the copyright, 

or failed to comply with the manufacturing clause or ad interim provi-

sions of the copyright law.

4. Although a country can become a source country through a presiden-

tial proclamation, only one such proclamation has been issued to date. 

That proclamation has to do with Viet Nam.

5. The legislation did not specifically address the question whether a 

work from a country that is a member of the WTO but not Berne must 

be registered. But one can assume that works that do not come under 

the definition of “Berne Convention work” found in 17 U.S.C. 101 would 

have to be registered before the owner could initiate a suit.

6. The NAFTA Implementation Act is contained in Pub.L. No. 103-182, 

107 Stat. 2057. See 60 Fed. Reg. 8252 (February 13, 1995) for a list of the 

works affected by the statements of intent to restore.

5  Notice of Intent to Enforce (NIE) a Copyright Restored  

Under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (URAA)

1  Title:

or

  Brief description of work:

  2  English translation of title (if any):

  3  Alternative title(s) (if any):

  4  Type of work:

  5  Name of author(s):

  6  Source country:

  7  Approximate year of publication:

  8  Additional identifying information:

  9  Name of copyright owner:

10 

If you are not the owner of all rights, 

specify the rights you own:

11  Address at which copyright owner  

can be contacted:

12  Telephone number of owner:

13  Telefax number of owner:

14  Certification and signature:

(If this work does not have a title, state “No title.”)

(for untitled works only)

(e.g., painting, sculpture, music, motion picture, sound recording, book)

(e.g., for movies: director, leading actors, screenwriter, animator; for photographs: subject matter; for books: editor, 
publisher, contributors, subject matter)

(Statements can be filed in the name of the owner of the restored copyright or the owner of an exclusive right therein.)

(e.g., the right to reproduce/distribute/publicly display/publicly perform the work or to prepare a derivative work based 
on the work)

(Give the complete address, including the country, and an “attention” line, or “in care of” name, if necessary.)

I hereby certify that, for each of the work(s) listed above, I am the copyright owner, or the owner of an exclusive right, or the 

owner’s authorized agent, the agency relationship having been constituted in a writing signed by the owner before the filing 

of this notice, and that the information given herein is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.

Signature:

Name (printed or typed):

As agent for (if applicable):

Date:

note: Notices of Intent to Enforce should be in English, except for the original title, and either be typed or printed 

legibly by hand in dark, preferably black, ink. They should be on 8 ½" × 11", (or a4, 210 × 297 mm) white paper of good 

quality, with at least a 1" (or 3 cm) margin.

circular 38b  reviewed:  01/2013  Printed on recycled paper 

u. s. government printing office: 2013-xxx-xxx ⁄ xx,xxx

U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · www.copyright.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
