32

Pseudonyms

This circular provides information 

about copyright law and pseudonyms. 

It covers

•  Definition of a pseudonymous work

•  Duration of copyright protection

•  Registering a pseudonymous work

For specific information, see  

chapter 600, section 615.2, of the 

Compendium of U.S. Copyright  

Office Practices.1

A pseudonym is a fictitious name that an individual 
author may use to identify him or herself to the public. A 
pseudonym may be used on the copies of a work or when 
registering a claim to copyright with the U.S. Copyright 
Office. Nicknames and abbreviated forms of legal names are 
not considered pseudonyms. For example, the British writer 
Joanne Rowling uses an abbreviated name and a pseudonym. 
She writes under “J.K. Rowling,” which is an abbreviated 
name, and “Robert Galbraith,” which is a pseudonym.

NOTE: A pseudonym itself is not protected by copyright. 
Copyright protection is not available for names or short 
phrases.

When an author places a pseudonym on the copies or 
phonorecords of a work protected by copyright instead of 
using the author’s real name, the work may be considered a 
pseudonymous work under copyright law, but only when the 
author’s real name does not appear anywhere on the work. If 
the author’s full name appears on the work or appears in the 
copyright notice, the work is not a pseudonymous work, even 
if a pseudonym also appears on the work or is included in the 
registration application. Whether a work is a pseudonymous 
work may have implications for protection under copyright 
law, in particular by extending or reducing the term of 
copyright.

Copyright Duration

For works created on or after January 1, 1978, the copyright 
in a pseudonymous work expires 95 years from the year of 
publication or 120 years from the year of creation, whichever 
is shorter.

If the legal name of the author is identified in the records 

of the Copyright Office, then the term of copyright will be 
the life of the author plus seventy years.

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR Copyright Registration 

You may register a pseudonymous work with the U.S. Copyright Office. For general information, 
see Copyright Registration (Circular 2). The Copyright Office encourages applicants to provide the 
author’s real name in the application for registration, even if the author’s name does not appear on 
the copies or phonorecords of the work. Providing the author’s real name creates a clear record of 
authorship and ownership of the copyright and may affect the term of copyright. 

NOTE: Registration records are open to the public. Do not disclose the author’s real name or address 
in an application for a pseudonymous work if the author does not wish to make that information 
public. The Office will not remove the author’s name from the registration record once a certificate 
of registration has been issued.

Mistakes in applications lead to delays in registration, so it is important to complete the 

application accurately. Here are some tips for registering a pseudonymous work.

Name of Author 

•  If you are registering a pseudonymous work, you are not required to provide the author’s full 

name in the application. 

 » If you do not wish to reveal the author’s real name, you may check the box marked 

Pseudonymous and complete the Pseudonym field.

 » If you wish to reveal the author’s real name, you may provide the author’s full name in 
the Individual Author field in addition to checking the box marked Pseudonymous and 
completing the Pseudonym field.

 » Only check the Pseudonymous box if the pseudonym, not the author’s real name, appears 

on the copies or phonorecords, including the copyright notice.

 » Do not check the Work Made for Hire box. A work made for hire cannot be registered 

as a pseudonymous work. For more information, see chapter 600, section 614.1(E) of the 
Compendium. 

 » Do not check the anonymous box. A pseudonymous work is not anonymous.

•  If you are not registering a pseudonymous work but wish to provide your pseudonym, provide 

the author’s full name in the Individual Author field and complete the Pseudonym field.

 » Do not check the pseudonymous box.

•  A pseudonym must be a name. The Copyright Office will not accept a number or symbol as a 

pseudonym.

•  The name of a performing group is not a pseudonym.

Year of Creation or Publication 

Double check the accuracy of the years of creation and publication, if applicable. These dates may 
be used to calculate the term of copyright if you do not include the author’s legal name in the 
application.

2

PseudonymsUsing the Pseudonym Elsewhere in the Application

If the author does not wish to provide his or her real name anywhere in the application, you may 
use the pseudonym in the following areas, where appropriate: Name of Claimant, Rights and 
Permissions, Correspondent, and Certification.

Supplementary Registration

Supplementary registration is a special type of registration that may be used to add the author’s 
real name to the registration record when the applicant originally provided a pseudonym. For more 
information, see Supplementary Registration (Circular 8).

NOTE
1. This circular is intended as an overview of copyright and pseudonyms. The authoritative source 
for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United States Code. Copyright 
regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Copyright Office practices and 
procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, 
cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the Compendium are available on the 
Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

3

PseudonymsFor Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,  
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or  
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time, 
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by  
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message. 

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office 
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 32  REVISED: 03 /2021 

PRINT: 00 /0000 — 0,000

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov