7B

Best Edition 
of Published Copyrighted Works for the 
Collections of the Library of Congress

When you submit a copyright 

registration or comply with the 

mandatory deposit provision in the 

copyright law for a U.S. work published 

in multiple editions or formats, you 

may be required to submit the “best 

edition” of your work. If your work 

is published in two or more of the 

formats listed in this circular, you must 

submit the format of highest quality.

When you register your published work or comply with the 
mandatory deposit requirement, you must submit copies 
of your work consistent with Copyright Office regulations. 
In certain situations, those copies must comply with the 
requirement to deposit the “best edition” of a work from 
among multiple editions of the work available at the time 
of registration. The law defines “best edition” as “the edition, 
published in the United States at any time before the date of 
deposit, that the Library of Congress determines to be most 
suitable for its purposes.”1 In general, a work is published 
when an authorized copy is sold or offered for distribution 
to the public.

The criteria used to identify the best edition for a particu-
lar work are listed in the Best Edition Statement. It is respon-
sibility of the copyright owner to identify the “best edition” 
that exists at the time of submission.

If your work was first published outside the United States, 

you may submit the work either as first published or the 
best edition. A work simultaneously published within and 
outside the United States is considered first published in 
the United States. For more information, see chapter 1500, 
section 1511.4 of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office 
Practices.

The best edition requirement does not apply to all depos-

its. In particular, the following types of works are exempt 
from the best edition requirement:

•  Unpublished works

•  Works published solely in editions or formats not listed 

in the Best Edition Statement

•  Most works that are published only online 
A work exempt from the best edition requirement is  
not exempt from the deposit requirements for copyright  
registration. For more information about the deposit 
requirements for registration, see Copyright Registration  
(Circular 2). 

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR It is the responsibility of the copyright owner to identify the “best edition” that exists at the time 
of submission. To identify the best edition of a particular work, consult the criteria in the Best Edi-
tion Statement below. The “best” edition generally will be the highest quality edition that is publicly 
circulated. Under Copyright Office regulations, when “judging quality, the Library of Congress 
will adhere to the criteria set forth [in the Best Edition Statement] in all but exceptional cases.” For 
example, if both a digital and a physical edition of a work were published before the date of the 
deposit, the physical edition should be submitted.

note: An owner need not create a new edition of a work solely to comply with the best edition 
requirement. Whatever edition was published in the United States at the time of deposit is the 
version that should be submitted. Likewise, if there are multiple editions of a work, but none of 
those editions are listed on the Best Edition Statement, you may submit any published edition 
that exists as of the date the claim is filed.

Under certain circumstances, the Copyright Office may grant a written request for special relief 

from the best edition requirement. For more information about special relief, see chapter 1500,  
section 1511.9, of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices.

2

“Best Edition” of Published Copyrighted WorksBest Edition Statement

I  Printed Textual Matter

C.  Illustrations

1.  Illustrated rather than unillustrated

2.  Illustrations in color rather than black and 

A.  Paper, Binding, and Packaging

white

1.  Archival-quality rather than less-permanent 

D.  Special Features

paper

1.  With thumb notches or index tabs rather 

2.  Hard cover rather than soft cover

than without

3.  Library binding rather than commercial 

2.  With aids to use, such as overlays and magni-

binding

fiers, rather than without

4.  Trade edition rather than book club edition

E.  Size

5.  Sewn rather than glue-only binding

6.  Sewn or glued rather than stapled or spiral-

bound

7.  Stapled rather than spiral-bound or plastic-

bound

8.  Bound rather than looseleaf, except when 
future looseleaf insertions are to be issued. 
In the case of looseleaf materials, this 
includes the submission of all binders and 
indexes when they are part of the unit as 
published and offered for sale or distribu-
tion. Additionally, the regular and timely 
receipt of all appropriate looseleaf updates, 
supplements, and releases, including sup-
plemental binders issued to handle these 
expanded versions, is part of the require-
ment to properly maintain these publica-
tions.

9.  Slip-cased rather than non-slip-cased

10. With protective folders rather than without  

(for broadsides)

11. Rolled rather than folded (for broadsides)

12. With protective coatings rather than without  
(except broadsides, which should not be 
coated)

B.  Rarity

1.  Special limited edition having the greatest 

number of special features

1.  Larger rather than smaller sizes. (Except that 
large-type editions for the partially sighted 
are not required in place of editions employ-
ing type of more conventional size.)

II  Photographs

A.  Size and finish, in descending order of preference

1.  The most widely distributed edition

2.  8" by 10" glossy print

3.  Other size or finish

B.  Unmounted rather than mounted

C.  Archival-quality rather than less-permanent 

paper stock or printing process

III  Motion Pictures

Film medium is considered a better quality than any 
other medium. The formats under “film” and “video 
formats” are listed in descending order of preference.

A.  Film

1.  Preprint material by special arrangement

2.  70mm positive print, if original production  

negative is greater than 35mm

3.  35mm positive prints

4.  16mm positive prints

B.  Videotape formats

1.  Betacam SP

2.  Other limited edition rather than trade edi-

2.  Digital Beta (Digibeta)

tion

3.  Special binding rather than trade binding

3.  DVD

4.  VHS cassette

3

“Best Edition” of Published Copyrighted WorksIV  Other Graphic Matter

A.  Paper and Printing

VI  Musical Compositions

A.  Fullness of Score

1.  Archival quality rather than less-permanent 

1.  Vocal music

paper

2.  Color rather than black and white

B.  Size and Content

1.  Larger rather than smaller size

2.  In the case of cartographic works, editions 
with the greatest amount of information 
rather than those with less detail

C.  Rarity

1.  The most widely distributed edition rather 

than one of limited distribution

2.  In the case of a work published only in a 

limited, numbered edition, one copy outside 
the numbered series but otherwise identical

3.  A photographic reproduction of the original, 

by special arrangement only

a.  With orchestral accompaniment—

i.  Full score and parts, if any, rather 

than conductor’s score and parts, if 
any. (In cases of compositions pub-
lished only by rental, lease, or lending, 
this requirement is reduced to full 
score only.)

ii.  Conductor’s score and parts, if any, 
rather than condensed score and 
parts, if any. (In cases of composi-
tions published only by rental, lease, 
or lending, this requirement is 
reduced to conductor’s score only.)

b.  Unaccompanied: Open score (each part 
on separate staff) rather than closed 
score (all parts condensed to two staves)

D.  Text and Other Materials

2.  Instrumental music

1.  Works with annotations, accompanying tab-
ular or textual matter, or other interpretative 
aids rather than those without them

E.  Binding and Packaging

1.  Bound rather than unbound

2.  If editions have different binding, apply the 

criteria in I.A.2–I.A.7, above.

3.  Rolled rather than folded

4.  With protective coatings rather than without

a.  Full score and parts, if any, rather than 
conductor’s score and parts, if any. (In 
cases of compositions published only by 
rental, lease, or lending, this requirement 
is reduced to full score only.)

b.  Conductor’s score and parts, if any, 

rather than condensed score and parts, if 
any. (In cases of compositions published 
only by rental, lease, or lending, this 
requirement is reduced to conductor’s 
score only.)

V  Phonorecords

B.  Printing and Paper

A.  Compact digital disc rather than vinyl disc

B.  Vinyl disc rather than tape

1.  Archival-quality rather than less-permanent 

paper

C.  With special enclosures rather than without

C.  Binding and Packaging

D.  Open-reel rather than cartridge

E.  Cartridge rather than cassette

F.  Quadraphonic rather than stereophonic

G.  True stereophonic rather than monaural

H.  Monaural rather than electronically rechan-

neled stereo

1.  Special limited editions rather than trade 

editions

2.  Bound rather than unbound

3.  If editions have different binding, apply the 

criteria in I.A.2–I.A.12, above.

4.  With protective folders rather than without

4

“Best Edition” of Published Copyrighted WorksVII  Microforms

A.  Related Materials

1.  With indexes, study guides, or other printed 

matter rather than without

B.  Permanence and Appearance

1.  Silver halide rather than any other emulsion

2.  Positive rather than negative

3.  Color rather than black and white

C.  Format (newspapers and newspaper-formatted 

serials)

1.  Reel microfilm rather than any other micro-

form

D.  Format (all other materials)

1.  Microfiche rather than reel microfilm

2.  Reel microfilm rather than microform  

cassettes

3.  Microfilm cassettes rather than micro-

opaque prints

E.  Size

1.  35mm rather than 16mm

VIII  Machine-Readable Copies

A.  Computer Programs

B.  Computerized Information Works, Including 
Statistical Compendia, Serials, or Reference 
Works

1.  With documentation and other accompany-

ing material rather than without

2.  With best edition of accompanying program 

rather than without

3.  Not copy-protected rather than copy- 

protected (if copy-protected, then with a 
backup copy of the disk(s))

4.  Format

a.  PC-DOS or MS-DOS (or other IBM- 
compatible formats, such as XENIX)

i.  Optical media, such as CD-ROM—

best edition should adhere to prevail-
ing NISO standards.

ii.  5¼" diskette(s)

iii. 3½" diskette(s)

b.  Apple Macintosh

i.  Optical media, such as CD-ROM—
best edition should adhere to  
prevailing NISO standards.

ii.   3½" diskette(s) 

1.  With documents and other accompanying 

material rather than without

2.  Not copy-protected rather than copy-protected  
(if copy-protected, then with a backup copy 
of the disk(s))

3.  Format

note: The best-edition requirement for machine-
readable copies applies only to copies submitted to the 
Library of Congress under section 407 of the copyright 
law, which addresses mandatory deposit. It does not 
apply to deposits submitted for registration of claims 
to copyright.

a.  PC-DOS or MS-DOS (or other IBM-com-

patible formats, such as XENIX)

IX  Electronic-Only Works Published in the United States 
and Available Only Online

i.  5¼" diskette(s)

ii.  3½" diskette(s)

The following encodings are listed in descending order of 
preference for all deposits in all categories below:

iii. Optical media, such as CD-ROM—

1.  UTF-8.

best edition should adhere to prevail-
ing NISO standards.

b.  Apple Macintosh

i.  3½" diskette(s)

ii.  Optical media such as CD-ROM—

best edition should adhere to prevail-
ing NISO standards.

2.  UTF-16 (with BOM).

3.  US-ASCII.

4. 

ISO 8859.

5.  All other character encodings.

A.  Electronic-Only Serials:

1.  Content Format:

5

“Best Edition” of Published Copyrighted Worksa.  Serials-specific structured/markup 

iv.  XML-based document for-

format:

i.  Content compliant with the NLM 

Journal Archiving (XML) Document 
Type Definition (DTD), with presen-
tation stylesheet(s), rather than with-
out NISO JATS: Journal Article Tag 
Suite (NISO Z39.96-201x) with XSD/
XSL presentation stylesheet(s) and 
explicitly stated character encoding.

ii.  Other widely used serials or journal 
XML DTDs/schemas, with presenta-
tion stylesheet(s), rather than without.

iii. Proprietary XML format for serials 
or journals (with documentation), 
with DTD/schema and presentation 
stylesheet(s), rather than without.

b.  Page-oriented rendition:

i.  PDF/UA (Portable Document 

Format/Universal Accessibility; com-
pliant with ISO 14289-1).

ii.  PDF/A (Portable Document Format/
Archival; compliant with ISO 19005).

iii. PDF (Portable Document Format, 
with searchable text, rather than 
without; highest quality available, 
with features such as searchable text, 
embedded fonts, lossless compression, 
high resolution images, device-inde-
pendent specification of colorspace; 
content tagging; includes document 
formats such as PDF/X).

c.  Other structured or markup formats:

i.  Widely-used serials or journal non-
proprietary XML-based DTDs/sche-
mas with presentation stylesheet(s).

ii.  Proprietary XML-based format for 
serials or journals (with documenta-
tion) with DTD/schema and presen-
tation stylesheet(s).

iii. XHTML or HTML, with DOC-

TYPE declaration and presentation 
stylesheet(s).

mats (widely used and publicly 
documented). With presentation 
stylesheets, if applicable. Includes 
ODF (ISO/IEC 26300) and OOXML 
(ISO/IEC 29500).

d.  PDF (web-optimized with searchable 

text).

e.  Other formats:

i.  Rich text format.

ii.  Plain text.

iii. Widely-used proprietary word pro-
cessing or page-layout formats.

iv.  Other text formats not listed here.

2.  Metadata Elements: If included with pub-
lished version of work, descriptive data 
(metadata) as described below should 
accompany the deposited material:

a.  Title level metadata: serial or journal 

title, ISSN, publisher, frequency, place of 
publication.

b.  Article level metadata, as relevant/or 

applicable: volume(s), number(s), issue 
dates(s), article title(s), article author(s), 
article identifier (DOI, etc.).

c.  With other descriptive metadata 

(e.g., subject heading(s), descriptor(s), 
abstract(s)), rather than without.

3.  Completeness:

a.  All elements considered integral to the 

publication and offered for sale or distri-
bution must be deposited—e.g., articles, 
table(s) of contents, front matter, back 
matter, etc. Includes all associated exter-
nal files and fonts considered integral to 
or necessary to view the work as pub-
lished.

b.  All updates, supplements, releases, and 
supersessions published as part of the 
work and offered for sale or distribu-
tion must be deposited and received in 
a regular and timely manner for proper 
maintenance of the deposit.

6

“Best Edition” of Published Copyrighted Works4.  Technological measures that control access 
to or use of the work should be removed.

B.  Electronic-Only Books:

1.  Content Format:

a.  Book-specific structured/markup format, 
i.e., XML-based markup formats, with 
included or accessible DTD/schema, 
XSD/XSL presentation stylesheet(s), and 
explicitly stated character encoding:

i.  BITS-compliant (NLM Book DTD).

ii.  EPUB-compliant.

iii. Other widely-used book DTD/sche-

mas (e.g., TEI, DocBook, etc.).

b.  Page-oriented rendition:

i.  PDF/UA (Portable Document 

Format/Universal Accessibility; com-
pliant with ISO 14289-1).

ii.  PDF/A (Portable Document Format/
Archival; compliant with ISO 19005).

iii. PDF (Portable Document Format; 
highest quality available, with fea-
tures such as searchable text, embed-
ded fonts, lossless compression, high 
resolution images, device-indepen-
dent specification of colorspace; 
content tagging; includes document 
formats such as PDF/X).

c.  Other structured markup formats:

i.  XHTML or HTML, with DOC-

TYPE declaration and presentation 
stylesheet(s).

ii.  XML-based document formats 

(widely-used and publicly-docu-
mented), with presentation style 
sheet(s) if applicable. Includes ODF 
(ISO/IEC 26300) and OOXML (ISO/
IEC 29500).

iii. SGML, with included or accessible 

DTD.

iv.  Other XML-based non-propri-

etary formats, with presentation 
stylesheet(s).

v.  XML-based formats that use propri-
etary DTDs or schemas, with presen-
tation stylesheet(s).

d.  PDF (web-optimized with searchable 

text).

e.  Other formats:

i.  Rich text format.

ii.  Plain text.

iii. Widely-used proprietary word pro-
cessing or page-layout formats.

iv.  Other text formats not listed here.

2.  Metadata Elements: If included with pub-
lished version of work, descriptive data 
(metadata) as described below should 
accompany the deposited material:

a.  As supported by format (e.g., standards-
based formats such as ONIX, XMP, 
MODS, or MARCXML either embedded 
in or accompanying the digital item): 
title, creator, creation date, place of pub-
lication, publisher/producer/distributor, 
ISBN, contact information.

b.  Include if part of published version of 
work: language of work, other relevant 
identifiers (e.g., DOI, LCCN, etc.), edi-
tion, subject descriptors, abstracts.

3.  Rarity and Special Features:

a.  Limited editions (including those with 
special features such as high resolution 
images.)

b.  Editions with the greatest number of 

unique features (such as additional con-
tent, multimedia, interactive elements.)

4.  Completeness:

a.  For items published in a finite number of 
separate components, all elements pub-
lished as part of the work and offered for 
sale or distribution must be deposited. 
Includes all associated external files and 
fonts considered integral to or necessary 
to view the work as published.

7

“Best Edition” of Published Copyrighted WorksX  Works Existing in More Than One Medium

Editions are listed below in descending order of prefer-
ence.

A.  Newspapers, dissertations and theses,  

newspaper-formatted serials

1.  Microform

2.  Printed matter

B.  All other materials

1.  Printed matter

2.  Microform

3.  Phonorecord

b.  All updates, supplements, releases, and 
supersessions published as part of the 
work and offered for sale or distribu-
tion must be submitted and received in 
a regular and timely manner for proper 
maintenance of the deposit.

5.  Technological Protection Measures:

a.  Copies published in formats that do not 
contain technological measures control-
ling access to or use of the work.

b.  Copies published with technological 

measures that control access to or use of 
the work, and for which the owner has 
elected to remove such technological 
measures.

c.  Copies otherwise provided in a 

manner that meets the requirements of 
§202.24(a)(5).

notes
1. This circular is intended as an overview of the best edition requirement. The authoritative source for U.S. 
copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United States Code. Copyright Office regulations are 
codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Copyright Office practices and procedures are summarized 
in the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright 
law, regulations, and the Compendium are available on the Copyright Office website, www.copyright.gov. 
2. The Best Edition Statement is codified in Appendix B to Part 202 of the Copyright Office’s regulations.

8

“Best Edition” of Published Copyrighted WorksFor Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,  
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or  
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time, 
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by 
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message. 

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office 
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 7B  REVISED: 03/2021 

PRINT: 00/0000 — 0,000

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov