74B

How to Make 
Statutory License Royalty 
Payments by ACH Credit

This circular contains instructions 

on how to originate an ACH credit 

through a financial institution for 

statutory license royalty payments.1

Under the copyright statutory licenses, cable systems, satel-
lite carriers, and digital audio recording technology (DART) 
manufacturers and importers must pay royalty fees using 
electronic funds transfer (EFT). Cable systems and satellite car-
riers are also required to pay a filing fee for current, past, and 
future accounting periods. The EFT process benefits both the 
remitter and the Copyright Office as the agency responsible 
for collecting and distributing royalty fees. EFTs can be trans-
mitted either as Automated Clearing House (ACH) credits or 
as Fedwire (wire) transactions, depending on how a transfer 
is arranged through a financial institution. Alternatively, they 
can be transmitted as ACH debits using the U. S. Treasury 
Department’s web-based remittance system, Pay.gov. 

For other options, see How to Make Statutory License Roy-
alty Payments by Wire (Circular 74A), or How to Make Statu-
tory License Royalty Payments Using Pay.gov (Circular 74C). 

Procedure to Pay by ACH Credit

•  Contact your financial institution to determine if it is 
capable of originating ACH payments. Many finan-
cial institutions offer personal-computer-based ACH 
origination programs that allow you to input payment 
information directly into the prescribed format and to 
transmit the information to the financial institution.

•  Do not send a prenotification.

•  Settlement of the ACH must occur by the appropriate 

filing deadline. Settlement generally occurs the banking 
day after the ACH transmission. Check with your finan-
cial institution on timing to avoid interest payments.

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR •  Provide your financial institution with the specific instructions below so that the ACH can be 

transmitted:

Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
701 E. Byrd Street, Richmond, VA 23219

Financial institution: 
Location: 
Receiving ABA number:  051036706
Account number: 
Account name: 
Adenda record: 

303017
U.S. Copyright Office
See “Payment-Related Instructions”

Payment-Related Instructions

Provide accounting period; the number of statements of account; the type of royalty payment 
(cable, satellite, or DART); and the legal name of the owner of the cable system (and the first com-
munity and state served from one statement of account), the satellite carrier, or the DART manu-
facturer or importer covered by the electronic transfer.

Example: APC-952/NSA-00001/TOF-Cable/LNR-ABC CABLE CO (ALBANY NY)/

A description of subfields and their order for payment-related information follows.

Subfield Description

•  APC: A three-digit subfield indicating the accounting period covered by the electronic transfer. 
The second accounting period for the year is indicated by “102.” If the payment covers multiple 
accounting periods use “map” as the subfield and indicate on the cover letter the accounting 
period for each statement.

•  NSA: A five-digit subfield with leading zeros representing the number of statements of account 

the transfer covers, “00001” for 1 statement and “00095” for 95 statements.

•  TOF: Indicates the type of royalty fee payment (cable, satellite, or DART).

•  LNR: The last subfield is for the legal name of the owner of the cable system or satellite carrier 
or the DART manufacturer or importer covered by the electronic transfer payment and one 
community served if a cable system.

NOTE: All subfields in the payment-related information area must end with a “⁄ ”. The remitter 
should inform the financial institution that transmits the EFT to ensure that all information is 
provided in the prescribed format. Failure to provide the information in the prescribed format may 
cause a delay of the transfer.

Procedures to File the Statement of Account

Cable or Satellite

•  The royalty fee must be remitted by electronic payment, and the related statement(s) of 

account must be filed by the appropriate deadline.

•  Complete the Remittance Advice Form RA-1 if you are filing a cable or satellite statement of 
account. Send the completed form by email or fax to the Licensing Division indicating:

2

How to Make Statutory License Royalty Payments by ACH Credit1.  Remitter’s (company) name

2.  Contact person 

3.  Telephone number and extension, and an email address

4.  Date of EFT (actual or anticipated) and type of EFT

5.  Type of royalty payment (cable or satellite)

6.  Total amount of EFT

7.  Legal name (See space B of statement of account)

8.  Total amount to be paid by year, period, ID number, first community served (cable only), 

filing fees, and royalty fees

DART

•  The royalty fee must be remitted by electronic payment, and the related statement(s) of 

account must be filed by the appropriate deadline.

•  Complete the Remittance Advice Form RA-2 if you are filing a DART statement.

1.  Remitter’s (company) name

2.  Contact person

3.  Telephone number and email address

4.  Date of EFT (actual or anticipated) and type of EFT

5.  Total amount of EFT

6.  Legal name (See space B of statement of account)

7.  Year, period, ID number, and royalty amount paid per statement

Important

•  A remittance advice form must accompany statements of account. 

•  Royalty payments received after the filing deadline are subject to an interest assessment.  

Contact the Licensing Division at licensing@copyright.gov or visit our website at  
www.copyright.gov/licensing for interest rates.

•  Failure to follow these instructions may result in return of the royalty fees to the remitter’s 

account.

•  The Library of Congress, U.S. Copyright Office, Licensing Division, is an agency of the U.S. gov-
ernment and is exempt from backup withholding (taxpayer identification number: 53-6002532).

NOTE: See Copyright Office Licensing Division Service Fees (Circular 76).

NOTE
1. This circular is intended as an overview of how to make statutory license royalty payments by ACH 
credit. The authoritative source for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the 
United States Code. Copyright regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. 
Copyright Office practices and procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium 
of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the 
Compendium are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

3

How to Make Statutory License Royalty Payments by ACH CreditFor Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, and related materials 
are available from the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send a licensing related inquiry, e-mail licensing@copyright.gov. To send a general email inquiry, 
click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website. 

By Telephone

For licensing related information, call the Licensing Division at (202) 707-8150. For general infor-
mation about copyright, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-
476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time, Monday 
through Friday, except federal holidays. To request paper application forms or circulars by postal 
mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free) and leave a recorded message.

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office 
Licensing Division
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6400
Washington, DC 20557-6400

CIRCULAR 74B  REVISED: 09 /2017 

PRINT: 00 /0000 — 0,000

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov