30

Works Made for Hire

A copyrightable work is “made for hire” 

in two situations:

•  When it is created by an employee as 

part of the employee’s regular duties

•  When a certain type of work is 

created as a result of an express 

written agreement between 

the creator and a party specially 

ordering or commissioning it

When a work is a made for hire, 

the hiring or commissioning party 

is considered the author and the 

copyright owner. 

To register a work with the U.S. Copyright Office, you gener-
ally must identify the author or authors of that work. In 
addition, you must identify the party that owns the copyright 
in the work. Ordinarily, the author is the person or persons 
who actually created the work you intend to register. “Works 
made for hire” are an exception to this rule.1 For legal pur-
poses, when a work is a “work made for hire,” the author is 
not the individual who actually created the work. Instead, the 
party that hired the individual is considered both the author 
and the copyright owner of the work. 

Whether a work is a work made for hire is determined by 

facts in existence at the time the work is created. There are 
two situations in which a work made for hire is produced: 
(1) when the work is created by an employee as part of the 
employee’s regular duties and (2) when a certain type of work 
is created as a result of an express written agreement between 
the creator and a party specially ordering or commissioning 
the work. When a work is produced under these conditions, 
the employer or the party ordering or commissioning the 
work is considered the author and copyright owner.

The work made for hire concept can be complicated and 

has serious consequences for both the individual who cre-
ates a work and the hiring party who is considered to be 
the author and copyright owner of that work. This circular 
draws on the Copyright Act and judicial interpretation to 
provide a general introduction to this topic and answer 
common questions. For more information, see chapter 500, 
section 506 or chapter 600, section 614 of the Compendium 
of U.S. Copyright Office Practices.

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR Definition in the Copyright Law

The definition of work made for hire in the Copyright Act applies to works created on or after Janu-
ary 1, 1978. For works created prior to 1978, see chapter 2100 of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright 
Office Practices. Section 101 of the Copyright Act defines a “work made for hire” as

A. A work prepared by an employee within the scope of his or her employment

or

B.  A work specially ordered or commissioned for use 

1.  as a contribution to a collective work, 

2.  as a part of a motion picture or other audiovisual work, 

3.  as a translation, 

4.  as a supplementary work, 

5.  as a compilation, 

6.  as an instructional text, 

7.  as a test, 

8.  as answer material for a test, or 

9.  as an atlas, 

if the parties expressly agree in a written instrument signed by them that the work shall be con-

sidered a work made for hire. 

A “collective work” is a work, such as a periodical, anthology, or encyclopedia, in which a number 

of contributions, constituting separate and independent works in themselves, are assembled into a 
collective whole.

A “motion picture” is an audiovisual work consisting of a series of related images that, when 
shown in succession, impart an impression of motion, together with accompanying sounds, if any.
An “audiovisual work” is a work consisting of a series of related images that are intrinsically 

intended to be shown by the use of machines or devices, together with accompanying sounds, if any. 
This definition holds regardless of the nature of the material objects in which the work is embodied.
A “supplementary work” is a work prepared for publication as a secondary adjunct to a work by 
another author for the purpose of introducing, concluding, illustrating, explaining, revising, com-
menting upon, or assisting in the use of the other work, such as forewords, afterwords, pictorial 
illustrations, maps, charts, tables, editorial notes, musical arrangements, answer material for tests, 
bibliographies, appendixes, and indexes.

A “compilation” is a work formed by the collection and assembling of preexisting material or data 

that are selected, coordinated, or arranged in such a way that the resulting work as a whole consti-
tutes an original work of authorship.

An “instructional text” is a literary, pictorial, or graphic work prepared for publication and 

intended for use in systematic instructional activities.

2

Works Made for Hire“Scope of Employment”

For an employee’s work to be considered a work made for hire, the work must be created within 
the employee’s “scope of employment.” The Copyright Act does not define the terms “employee,” 
“employer,” or “scope of employment.” In its decision in Community for Creative Non-Violence v. 
Reed, the U.S. Supreme Court held that Congress intended these terms “to be understood in light of 
agency law,” which governs employer-employee relationships, and that the courts should rely “on 
the general common law of agency, rather than on the law of any particular [s]tate, to give meaning 
to these terms.” Questions you may need to consider include:

•  What skill was required to create the work?

•  Where was the work created? Did the hiring party provide the space, materials, or tools to 

create the work?

•  How long was the relationship between the parties? Did the hiring party have the right to 

assign other projects besides the one under review? Could the hiring party direct the creator 
when and how long to work?

•  How was the creator paid? Did the hiring party offer employee benefits? Did the hiring party 

remove taxes from the creator’s pay?

•  Does the creator have his or her own business? Was the creator able to hire and pay assistants?

•  Was the work created as part of the regular business hours of the hiring party? Was the work 
created pursuant to the creator’s usual tasks? Was the work created during the creator’s autho-
rized work time?

Specially Ordered or Commissioned Works

A specially ordered or commissioned work is considered a work made for hire if it satisfies all of the 
following four criteria:

1.  The work must fall within one of the nine categories of works listed above that are eligible to 

be specially ordered or commissioned as works made for hire.

2.  There must be a written agreement between the party that ordered or commissioned the 

work and individual(s) who actually created the work.

3. 

In the written agreement, the parties must expressly agree that the work is to be considered a 
work made for hire.

4.  The agreement must be signed by all parties.

If a work fails to satisfy any of these requirements, it is not a work made for hire.

3

Works Made for HireCopyright in Works Made for Hire

A work’s status as a work made for hire affects the authorship, copyright ownership, copyright term, 
and termination rights in that work.

Authorship

If a work is a work made for hire, the employer or the party that specially ordered or commissioned 
that work is the author of that work.

Copyright Ownership

If a work is made for hire, the employer or the party that specially ordered or commissioned that 
work is the initial owner of the copyright in the work unless the employer or the commissioning 
party has signed a written agreement to the contrary with the work’s creator.

Copyright Term

The term of copyright protection in a work made for hire is 95 years from the date of publication or 
120 years from the date of creation, whichever expires first. For information about copyright term, 
see Duration of Copyright (Circular 15A).

Termination Rights

Under certain circumstances, an author or the author’s heirs can terminate an exclusive or 
nonexclusive transfer or license of the copyright in a particular work under sections 203, 304(c), 
and/or 304(d) of the Copyright Act. These termination provisions, however, do not apply to works 
made for hire. For more information, see chapter 2300, section 2310 of the Compendium.

Registration

When you apply to register a work, you, not the Copyright Office, must determine whether the 
work is a work made for hire. You should base your determination on the facts that existed when 
the work was created. The examiner will generally accept your representation that a work is a work 
made for hire unless your representation is contradicted by information known to the examiner 
or available in the registration materials or the Office’s records. If your claim appears unusual or 
implausible, the examiner may communicate with you or refuse registration. For more information, 
see chapter 500, section 506, and chapter 600, section 614, of the Compendium.

Questionnaire

The parties involved must determine whether or not a work is a work made for hire. The Copyright 
Office cannot provide legal advice about the status of a work. However, the following questions 
may help you decide if a work created on or after January 1, 1978, fits within the law’s definition of 
a work made for hire. The questions are derived from chapter 500, section 506, of the Compendium, 
which contains examples illustrating some of the factors that indicate whether a work does or does 
not qualify as a work made for hire. 

4

Works Made for Hirequestion 1: Was the work created by an employee? 
Yes? Proceed to Question 2. 
No? Proceed to Question 3.

question 2: Did the employee create the work while acting within the scope of employment?
Yes? The work is a work made for hire.
No? Proceed to Question 3.

question 3: Is there a written agreement between the commissioning party and the creator of the 
work?
Yes? Proceed to Question 4.
No? The work is not a work made for hire.

question 4: Was the written agreement signed by the commissioning party?
Yes? Proceed to Question 5.
No? The work is not a work made for hire.

question 5: Was the written agreement signed by the creator of the work?
Yes? Proceed to Question 6.
No? The work is not a work made for hire.

question 6: Did the parties expressly agree that the work shall be considered a “work made for 
hire”? 
Yes? Proceed to Question 7.
No? The work is not a work made for hire.

question 7: Does the work fall into one or more of the following categories?

•  An atlas

•  A test

•  Answer material for a test

•  A translation

•  A part of a motion picture or other audiovisual work

•  A compilation

•  A contribution to a collective work

•  A supplementary work

•  An instructional text

Yes? The work is a work made for hire.
No? The work is not a work made for hire.

5

Works Made for Hirenote
1. This circular is intended as an overview of works made for hire. The authoritative source for U.S. 
copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United States Code. Copyright Office 
regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Copyright Office practices and 
procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, 
cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the Compendium are available on the 
Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

6

Works Made for Hire7

Works Made for HireFor Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,  
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or  
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time, 
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by 
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message. 

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office 
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 30  REVISED: 08 /2024 

US GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE/2024

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov