Document downloaded from: 

This paper must be cited as:  

The final publication is available at 

Copyright 

Additional Information 

This article is (c) Emerald Group Publishing and permission has been granted for thisversion to appear here (http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/MD-11-2011-0433). Emerald does notgrant permission for this article to be further copied/distributed or hosted elsewhere withoutthe express permission from Emerald Group Publishing Limitedhttp://dx.doi.org/10.1108/MD-11-2011-0433http://hdl.handle.net/10251/65760EmeraldCastro-Martínez, E.; Recasens, A.; Jiménez-Sáez, F. (2013). Innovation systems in motion:an early music case. Management Decision. 51(6):1276-1292. doi:10.1108/MD-11-2011-0433. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Innovation systems in motion: an early music case1 

Elena  Castro-Martínez,  INGENIO  (CSIC-UPV).  Universitat  Politècnica  de  València, 
Valencia (Spain) 

Albert Recasens, Lauda Música, SL, Madrid (Spain) 

Fernando  Jiménez-Sáez,  INGENIO  (CSIC-UPV).  Universitat  Politècnica  de  València, 
Valencia (Spain) 

Abstract 

Purpose: This study provides an in-depth understanding of the innovation system and 
the learning processes involved in a very specific cultural field: the production of early 
music. 

Methodology: A single case study of the generic value chain in the music production 
industry  describes  and  analyses  the  process  and  the  actors  involved  in  editing  a  new 
early music collection resulting from the collaboration between a record company and a 
public research organization. 

Findings: There is a need for new knowledge in the various stages of performance and 
publication  of  a  new  recording.  The  early  music  sector  is  a  knowledge-intensive, 
science-driven  sector  that  can  be  characterized  as  a  system  because  the  interactions 
among actors substantially influence final products. 

Research  limitations/implications:  The  single  case  study  represents  a  specific  sector 
within the music industry. However, its conclusions can be applied to other fields in the 
cultural heritage sector. 

Originality/value: The literature on innovation in the cultural field primarily focuses on 
the relationship between art and information and communication technology (ICT). This 
paper  is  novel  in  analysing  a  case  where  scientific  knowledge  is  key  to  new  product 
development,  and  suggesting  that  we  need  to  take  account  of  the  interactions  among 
cultural heritage entities, universities and other knowledge production organizations. It 
concludes that these organizations should be involved institutionally in other aspects of 
the innovation process. 

Keywords:  innovation  system,  industry-science  interactions,  cultural  industries, 
musicology, early music. 

1 To be published in Management decision, 51(6), 2013. 

1 

 
 
 
 
                                                 
1  Background and aim 

Previous work on knowledge transfer from the humanities and social sciences (Castro-
Martínez  et  al.,  2008a,  2008b)  has  studied  the  relationships  between  humanities 
researchers, enterprises and other cultural entities, both public and private. It has been 
found  that  the  innovation  process  involved  very  close  interactions  and  tightly  knit 
networks of actors. These studies led to in depth studies of innovation in certain services 
sectors such as culture and cultural heritage, including early music. 

The  growing  importance  of  services  in  developed  economies  justifies  the  interest  in 
analysing  this  sector  from  various  perspectives,  including  innovation  (Miles,  1994; 
Hauknes, 1996). The application to services of conceptual developments on innovation 
generated  originally  for  industry  has  been  analysed,  alongside  the  interrelationships 
among the innovations produced in both sectors (Amable and Palombarini, 1998; Miles, 
2000,  Ettlie  and  Rosenthal,  2011)  in  different  countries  and  areas  (Vence  and  Trigo, 
2010). 

In  services,  innovation  studies  initially  focused  on  sectors  with  high  economic 
relevance, such as banking (Consoli, 2005), or telecommunications, computer services, 
R&D  and  consulting,  the  so-called  knowledge-intensive  business  services  or  KIBS 
(Miles  et  al.,  1995).  The  study  of  the  innovation  processes  in  other  service  sectors  is 
more recent, for example, tourism (Jacob Escauriaza et al., 2001; Sundbo et al., 2007) 
and health (Djellal and Gallouj, 2005; Ramlogan and Consoli, 2007; Consoli and Mina, 
2009).  Innovations  in  the  health  sector  arise  from  the  complex  interplay  between 
knowledge bases and highly distributed behaviours (e.g. new medical technologies and 
clinical services) (Consoli and Mina, 2009; p.315). 

Since  the  beginning  of  the  21st  century  several  studies  have  examined  the  process  of 
innovation  in  the  cultural  sector  from  the  perspectives  of  economics  (Cunningham, 
2002;  Potts,  2007;  Chapain  and  Comunian,  2010),  innovation  policy  (Asheim  et  al., 
2007) and management (Wilson and Stokes, 2005; Sundbo, 2009; Bakshi and Throsby, 
2010).  There  is  not  an  absolute  consensus  on  delimiting  the  sector  and  the  literature 
refers  to  groups  such  as  the  cultural  industries  (Hirsch,  2000;  Eltham,  2009),  the 
creative industries (Pratt, 2005; Asheim and Hansen, 2009; Potts et al., 2008) and also 
an "experience sector” which includes companies that "produce experiences" (festivals, 
broadcasts,  audio-visual  entertainment,  gymnasiums,  sports  clubs,  design  and 
architecture,  museums,  etc.)  (Sundbo,  2009;  p.  432).  These  terms  encompass  both 
private companies and public entities. 

The literature tends to reinforce the idea that the concept of innovation in public policy 
is  limited  to  scientific  and  technological  invention  and  its  results  (products  and 
technological  processes).  It  generally  overlooks  other  types  of  knowledge  emerging 
from  the  arts  and  the  humanities  and  social  sciences,  which  are  developed  by  the 
creative industries and give rise to cultural products, services and processes, and social 
innovations which, in certain regions or countries, are of equal importance to scientific 
and  technological  innovation.  Analysis  of  the  innovation  processes  in  the  creative 
industry  sector  from  a  political  perspective  (design  of  regional  innovation  policy)  led 
Asheim  and  Hansen  (2009;  p.  425)  to  identify  a  new  type  of  knowledge  base,  which 
they describe as symbolic, where innovation emerges from the different recombination 
of existing knowledge, creating meaning, desire, aesthetic qualities, affect, intangibles, 

2 

 
 
symbols  and  images.  They  compare  this  with  the  categories  of  basic  or  analytical 
knowledge in economic sectors, which is based on the creation of new knowledge, and 
synthetic  knowledge  which  is  based  on  the  application  or  new  combinations  of 
engineering and other knowledge. According to Asheim and Hansen (2009; p. 430), the 
instruments used to promote innovation in companies varies substantially, depending on 
the  type  of  their  dominant  knowledge  base,  and  because  they  have  different  ways  of 
creating  and  exploiting  knowledge  and  incorporating  external  knowledge.  Their 
interactions  give  preference  to  different  types  of  actors:  research  organizations  in  the 
case  of  sectors  with  an  analytical  knowledge  base;  customers  and  suppliers  of 
equipment and materials in the case of synthetic knowledge based industries; artists and 
other agents in the cultural value chain in the case of sectors with a symbolic knowledge 
base.  

The commonly  accepted  definitions of  product innovation (OECD,  2005; p. 58)  focus 
on  functional  or  user  changes  and,  thus,  do  not  include  changes  in  the  meanings, 
aesthetics or content produced in the area of culture. This has several consequences, the 
most  important  being  that  innovation  statistics  do  not  provide  a  measure  of  these 
changes  in  terms  of  new  “products”  from  the  cultural  sector  and  the  instruments 
employed by innovation policy are not appropriate for these sectors (HKU, 2010).  

This has led to new proposals from scholars in the field. Paul Stoneman (2007, 2008) 
suggested  the  term,  "soft  innovations",  which  he  defines  as  innovations  or  changes 
whose  main  impact  is  on  sensorial  and  aesthetic  perception,  not  on  functional 
characteristics  (Stoneman,  2007;  p.  2).  Miles  and  Green  (2008)  introduced  the  term 
"hidden innovation", to refer to those types of innovation and innovation processes that 
are  excluded  from  established  innovation  studies,  policies  and  indicators.  Based  on  a 
research project developed by the Manchester Institute of Innovation Research and the 
National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts (UK), they developed a new 
framework  for  understanding  innovation  in  the  creative  industries,  taking  account  of 
both  technological  and  business  processes.  They  analysed  the  four  prominent 
dimensions of innovation in creative industries (cultural product, cultural concept, user 
interface  and  delivery).  This  analysis  identified  15  "sites"  of  innovation  related  to  the 
main  business  processes  (creative  firm,  production  and  pre-production,  product, 
communications  and  user  experience)  where  innovation  may  involve  technological 
development,  organizational  change  and  new  creative  content  and/or  aesthetic  design. 
They  define  four  types  of  innovation  which  are  excluded  from  current  measurement 
systems:  a)  those  that  are  the  same  or  similar  to  activities  measured  by  traditional 
indicators,  but  are  excluded  from  measurement  (such  as  market  research);  b) 
innovations  in  business  organisation  and  models;  c)  innovations  created  by  the  novel 
combination of existing processes and technologies (e.g. the distribution of content via 
the  Internet);  and  d)  small  scale,  local  level  innovations  developed  to  resolve  specific 
problems,  which  are  neither  registered  nor  officially  recognized.  Jaaniste  (2009) 
proposes the addition of "innovation in cultural processes and products" to complement 
conventional  technological  innovations,  considering  the  former  as  new  knowledge 
generated  in  the  area  of  humanities  and  social  sciences  and  the  latter  as  knowledge 
emerging from experimental science, engineering and medicine. He makes a distinction 
between the expressive-reflexive knowledge related to innovation in cultural processes 
and products and the technical-rational knowledge related to science, engineering and 
medical innovation. Bakshi and Throsby (2010; p. 13), based on an exhaustive study of 
the  case  of  two  British  non-profit  cultural  entities  (the  Tate  Gallery  and  the  National 
Theatre), propose four categories of innovation for cultural entities arising from changes 

3 

 
to  various  contextual  aspects  (technology,  patterns  of  demand,  sources  of  income  not 
derived from work, and concepts of value creation): 

Innovation in the development of an art form, such as the production of a new work 
or  one  that  has  never  been  performed,  and  new  approaches  to  the  performance  or 
presentation of works already performed/presented.  

Innovation  in  value  creation:  cultural  entities  create  value  in  many  ways  (aesthetic 
quality,  meaning,  spiritual  resonance,  social  value,  educational  value),  not  just  for  the 
direct consumers of their products and services, but also for society in general and for 
other sectors.  

Innovation  in  reaching  an  audience,  in  order  to  increase  reach  (attract  a  more 
traditional  audience);  intensify  (strengthen  commitment)  or  diversify  (attract  new 
consumer groups). 

Innovation in business management and governance: new business models (demand, 
supply, funding). 

Bakshi and Throsby (2010; p. 18) agree with Miles and Green (2008; p. 14), pointing 
out that those innovations related to a cultural concept and development of an art form 
do  not  fit  with  the  Oslo  manual  specifications.  The  differences  they  highlight  are 
between  the  content  or  value  of  the  new  cultural  products,  but  not  between  their 
functionalities.  Likewise,  innovation  related  to  increasing  audience  does  not  coincide 
with the definition of marketing innovation proposed in the Oslo manual. 

Also, since this sector is strongly linked to creativity, creative industries are considered 
to  play  an  additional  role,  contributing  to  economic  and  social  evolution  as  well  as 
forces  for  economic,  social  and  cultural  change  (Potts,  2007;  p.  1;  Jaaniste,  2009;  p.  
222). According to Luke Jaaniste, the creative industry sector contributes to a culture of 
creativity  and  innovation,  offers  training  in  skills  aimed  at  innovation,  promotes  the 
introduction  of  technological  products  through  marketing,  design  and  content,  and 
contributes  to  scientific  research  in  the  creative  sector,  including  collaborations  with 
researchers in the fields of experimental sciences and technology among others.  

We  need  an  in-depth  analysis  of  the  various  sectors  subsumed  within  the  broad  term 
cultural, in terms of their innovation process, which varies considerably, and the results 
of creative work (original pieces, experience, and content) which are very diverse across 
sub-sectors  (Jeffcutt  and  Pratt,  2002).  In  the  editorial  to  a  Special  Issue  of  Creativity 
and  Innovation  Management  on  the  management  of  creative  industries,  Jeffcutt  and 
Pratt (2002; p. 227) suggest the need to conduct a more profound study of organization 
and  management  in  the  sector,  but  point  out  that  this  would  require  consideration  of 
several  dimensions  because  there  is  not  "one"  creative  industry,  but  "many".  The 
profiles of employees and their connections to other agents in the production process are 
different;  there  are  very  recently  created  companies  and  micro  companies  coexisting 
with large multinationals; production cycles are often short and work is carried out in 
projects, in a highly competitive environment and in the context of an uncertain future. 
The creative industry is a specialized sector based on highly specialized and individual 
skills, which makes it necessary to differentiate between the management of creativity 
and the management of innovation (Wilson and Stokes, 2005; p. 367). 

Most studies of innovation in creative industries focus on the role of new ICTs, leading 
to new products (e.g. computer games) and  new production processes, user interfaces, 
strategies,  organization  and  management  practices  (Miles  and  Green,  2008;  p.  13; 
Bakshi and Throsby, 2010; p. 20; Hotho and Champion, 2011). There are also a strand 

4 

 
of studies on spatial concentration of creative industries (Florida, 2003; Cunningham et 
al., 2004; Davis, 2009; van der Groep, 2010; Le Blanc, 2010) and work that connects 
creative industries and innovation policy (Potts, 2009; Jaaniste, 2009; p. 218).  

In the specific context of the music industry, several articles study different aspects of 
the  innovation  process  and  management,  as  well  as  the  effect  of  context  on  the 
commercial success of innovative processes and products, especially those related to the 
intellectual  property  rights  framework.  Gander  and  Rieple  (2002)  study  inter-
organization  relations  in  the  international  recorded  popular  music  industry  (major  and 
independent).  Power  and  Hallencreutz  (2002)  analyse  two  dynamic  innovation  and 
popular  music  production  centres  (Stockholm,  Sweden,  and  Kingston,  Jamaica)  and 
conclude  that  unparalleled  returns  on  commercially  successful  creativity  depend  on 
local  and  global  inter-  and  intra-firm  links  and  on  the  effectiveness  of  intellectual 
property rights regimes. Lorenzen and Frederiksen (2005) analyse the music industry to 
explain the organization and management of market-based projects in order to facilitate 
product  innovation  through  experimentation.  Jöckel  et  al.  (2007)  analyse  the  potential 
for  commercial  music  download  platforms  and  their  relation  to  consumer  demand; 
Hjalager (2009) study the Roskilde Festival as an emerging cultural innovation system, 
and analyse the dense and multifaceted relationships between the festival organizers and 
the  other  actors,  concluding  that  the  concept  of  innovation  systems  can  be  used  to 
explain the complex mechanisms that determine the conditions, extent and outcomes of 
the innovative behaviour of all the participants. Finally, a Special Issue of Management 
Decision (McLean et al., 2010) is devoted to exploring the new business model within 
the  recording  and  publishing  industries,  and  the  intellectual  property  rights  aspects  of 
transactions and the new interface between product and users. 

To our knowledge, there are no studies of the interactions between researchers and key 
actors  (among  others)  in  the  classical  music  industry  value  chain,  including  the 
subsector of early music where musicologists are highly relevant because they need to 
transcribe  and  contextualize  ancient  works  for  their  performance  by  contemporary 
musicians, with the extreme rigour required of such an enterprise. 

Following  Hjalager  (2009;  p.  277),  the  existence  of  multiple  actors  interacting  at 
different stages in the music value chain, suggests that the innovation system approach 
is appropriate  to  understand the process involved in the production of records and the 
exchange  of  new  knowledge  that  takes  place  in  this  process.  Among  the  different 
approaches  in  the  Innovation  Systems  literature  (Lundvall,  2007),  Malerba’s  (2002) 
sectoral  and  production  innovation  system  best  fits  the  case  presented  here.  Malerba 
defines  a  sectoral  system  of  innovation  as  “a  set  of  new  and  established  products  for 
specific uses and the set of agents carrying out market and non-market interactions for 
the creation, production and sale of those products. A sectoral system has a knowledge 
base,  technologies,  inputs  and  an  existing,  emergent  and  potential  demand.…  Agents 
are  characterized  by  specific  learning  processes,  competencies,  beliefs,  objectives, 
through  processes  of 
organizational  structures  and  behaviors.  They 
communication,  exchange,  co-operation,  competition  and  command,  and 
their 
interactions are shaped by institutions (rules and regulations).” (Malerba, 2002; p. 250). 

interact 

In  this  context,  the  present  study  should  improve  our  knowledge  of  the  innovation 
process  in  the  cultural  environment  through  the  analysis  of  a  very  specific  area:  the 
production  of  early  or  "historical"  music 1 .  Specifically,  we  use  the  conceptual 
framework of innovation systems (Lundvall, 1992) to explore the interactions, learning 
process  and  role  of  non-business  agents  in  the  processes  of  innovation.  Based  on  a 

5 

 
generic  description  of  the  music  production  industry  value  chain,  we  describe  and 
analyse  the  processes  and  the  actors  involved  in  the  emergence  of  a  new  early  music 
collection and the role of the scientific organization involved. 

2  Methodology 

In  order  to  analyse  the  emergence  of  innovation  in  the  sub-sector  of  early  music 
production and the relationships among all those involved in the process, we use a case 
study  methodology,  which  allows  for  sufficient  detail  to  uncover  the  roles  of  the 
different  actors  and,  especially,  public  research  organization.  We  believe  that  the 
findings from this study may be useful for understanding other areas of culture, where 
the knowledge gathered by researchers may also be highly relevant. Besides, this case 
study  is  also  valuable  to  illustrate  the  need  of  interacting  agents  to  actually  build  an 
Innovation  System.  This  provides  a  new  brick  to  consolidate  such  concept  and  offers 
new  insights  regarding  the  key  role  of  interactions  as  a  way  to  guide  the  Innovation 
System consolidation in other areas and as a whole.  

This  case  study  also  relies  on  the  co-author  specific  knowledge  in  the  sector  to 
accurately  depict  the  agents  involved  in  the  sector,  the  sort  of  relationships  and  how 
they  interact  since  an  in-depth  analysis  is  only  achieved  with  the  involvement  of 
stakeholders involved in the case. Furthermore, this methodology provides the scientific 
community  a  ground  for  an  effective  consolidation  of  the  Innovation  System  concept 
(Flyvbjerg,  2006): 
the  scientific 
development of the Innovation System concept and helps testing hypotheses as relevant 
characteristics of a sound methodology. 

it  offers  practical  knowledge,  contributes  to 

To  organize  our  analysis,  we  follow  the  model  of  the  music  industry  value  chain 
described in Wilson and Stokes (2005; p. 368) (see Figure 1). Figure 1 shows that the 
production  of  new  music  records  begins  with  the  creation  of  new  content  and  is 
followed by editing (protection), production, marketing and distribution of this content. 
This  general  scheme  can  be  broken  down  into  the  two  processes  of  production  of  the 
record and performance of the works, whose paths sometimes cross, but which involve 
different  actors.  The  first  process  is  dedicated  to  the  production  and  sale  of  physical 
recordings  (music  CDs);  it  includes  the  creators  of  content  (composers  and  lyricists) 
whose  works  are  edited  by  music  editors  in  order,  among  other  objectives,  to  protect 
intellectual property rights. The songs or pieces may be performed by their creator(s) or 
by  some  other  performer(s);  the  latter  option  in  the  case  of  classical  and  early  music. 
During  this  process,  the  record  company  plays  the  central  role,  as  the  entity  that 
identifies  the  opportunity  to  start  a  new  project,  depending  on  its  particular  editorial 
profile or on the market, makes contact with the performers, produces the CDs (which 
includes planning recording sessions, guiding the performers, supervising the recording 
and  mastering  process,  editing  the  libretto  or  accompanying  booklet  and  controlling 
manufacture, etc.), and delivers the end product to the distribution companies (dealers), 
which  may  be  either  national  or  international  (in  line  with  agreements  for  certain 
countries or under a worldwide distribution contract). The culmination of this process is 
that the CDs become available to users through general or specialized shops, although 
ICTs have led to important changes in this respect (e.g. online sales, pay-per-download, 
streaming music services, etc.). The second process is the live performance of the works 
by  artists,  at  festivals,  concert  halls  or  opera  houses,  a  process  that  involves  the 
performers  (conception  and  selection  of  the  repertoire),  intermediaries  (artists'  agents) 

6 

 
 
and  the  concert  organizers/promoters.  In  this  process  it  is  the  festival  directors  or  the 
promoters  of  concert  halls  who  play  the  central  role,  since  they  select  the  performers 
and negotiate the programme according to the artistic policy or the focus of the event. 

Alongside  the  main  actors  in  both  processes,  there  are  others,  such  as  the  press  and 
music  periodicals  (with  critics  who  evaluate  aspects  of  music  performances  or 
recordings),  and  music  programmes  broadcast  on  radio  and  TV,  which  contribute 
considerably to the promotion of works and artists. 

Both processes have different dynamics but are interdependent because both contribute 
to  distribution  to  the  public  of  the  works  performed  or  recorded  by  the  artists.  The 
various participants in both processes interact along the value chain; the most obvious 
interaction is between the artists (or their agents) and the record producers, who take on 
or  commission  new  projects.  They  also,  sometimes,  spark  new  interactions,  such  as 
between record labels (or radio stations) and concert halls or festivals, which result in 
agreements to make either "live" or post-concert recordings.  

3  Case description 

3.1  Spanish early music 

From  the  mid  16th  century  to  the  end  of  the  17th  is  known  as  the  "Spanish  Golden 
Age", and represents the height of Spanish cultural prestige. The best supported cultural 
areas  were  literature,  plastic  arts,  music  and  architecture.  Literary,  pictorial  and 
architectural  works  have  survived  through  to  contemporary  times,  but  musical  works 
and  their  authors  (with  some  exceptions,  such  as  the  famous  triumvirate  of  classical 
Spanish  polyphony,  Morales,  Guerrero  and  Victoria),  for  various  reasons,  have  not 
remained so popular or have not been so widely disseminated. Among these reasons is 

7 

 
 
 
 
the  less  well  developed  music  printing  industry  in  Spain  and  the  late  emergence  of 
musicology as a science and its inclusion as a discipline in universities. Manuscripts of 
the  works  by  authors  of  high  renown  in  their  time  are  preserved  in  archives  and 
libraries,  in  Spain  and  in  Latin  America,  and  books  and  musical  manuscripts  have 
circulated rapidly and widely during the Modern Age. However, experts estimate that a 
large part of  Spanish musical heritage has not  been  performed  or recorded, and that a 
considerable  part  of  the  repertoire  has  not  been  catalogued  or  edited,  both  conditions 
indispensable for its subsequent performance.  

Musicologists are researchers who are dedicated to the scientific study of music and its 
various aspects (history, origins, context, theory, instruments, etc.). In the case of early 
music,  musicological  research  makes  two  basic  contributions:  firstly,  it  provides  new 
editions  because,  before  to  the  17th  century  the  type  of  notation  used  was  different 
(mensural notation, instrumental tablatures). This makes it necessary to create modern 
transcriptions  that  today’s  musicians  can  perform.  It  also  adds  value  to  the  results  by 
providing elements of contextualisation and reflection which help our understanding of 
the  importance  of  musical  phenomena  within  a  broader  perspective.  Therefore, 
musicology studies contribute to the staging of performances which are more faithful to 
the context of their creation. The knowledge generated by musicologists is published in 
books  and  or  specialist  journals,  mostly  produced  by  academic  or  institutional 
publishers. It has been calculated that more than 25,000 pages of  Spanish  music from 
the period under study have been printed by the CSIC, for example. These include the 
works of a long list of composers, and several music genres.  

3.2  The innovation process: actors and interactions 

The case  under analysis is the  creation of  the  "Poetic music"2 collection of recordings 
under  the  auspices  of  a  small  recording  company  (Lauda  Música)  that  specializes  in 
early music, associated with an early music ensemble, La Grande Chapelle, and CSIC 
(Lambea and Josa, 2007). Their collaboration began in 2005 with an agreement signed 
by  CSIC  and  Lauda  Música,  on  the  basis  of  the  scientific  collaboration  involving 
musicologists from the Institució Mila i Fontanals, part of CSIC, and specialists in the 
literature  of  the  Spanish  Golden  Age  from  the  University  of  Barcelona.  Informal 
collaboration between the researchers and the recording company started in 2004, when 
the Comunidad of Madrid (Madrid regional government) commissioned Lauda Música 
to  produce  a  CD  of  Music  for  Don  Quixote  to  commemorate  the  IV  Centenary  of  the 
publication of the first part of Don Quixote. The collaboration between the researchers 
and the recording company’s managing director was decisive for completing the project 
within  the  stipulated  deadlines  and  to  the  required  scientific  quality.  The  experience 
suggested  the  possibility  of  collaborating  over  other  projects  of  interest  to  both  the 
recording  company,  which  was  enabled  access  to  unpublished  works  or  works  not 
previously  performed,  and  CSIC,  which  saw  it  as  a  new  means  disseminating 
musicological research. Thus, in 2005, CSIC's Department of Publications approved the 
co-editing, with Lauda Música, of the "Poetic Music" record collection and signed the 
agreement  to  start  the  collection,  under  the  scientific  direction  of  the  CSIC 
musicologist. The object of the new collection is the recording of Spanish music from 
the  16th  to  the  18th  century,  under  the  various  categories  of  secular,  religious  and 
instrumental music. The declared general objective of the collection is: to combine the 
interests of the entities sponsoring the records with scientific and musical quality and 
innovative productions (Lambea et al., 2010).  

8 

 
 
Figure  2  depicts  how  the  actors  in  the  Poetic  Music  system  interacted  to  generate 
successive recordings and associated concert performances.  

In the specific case of early music, the production process for each project begins with 
identifying  the  basic  content  to  be  recorded.  This  is  based  on  the  project  objective, 
defined  in  terms  of  the  opportunity  identified  by  the  recording  company  (the 
anniversary  of  events,  composer,  etc.),  and  scientific  reasons  (such  as  the  recent 
discovery  of  scores  of  high  musicological  value).  The  compositions  to  be  included  in 
the  collection  are  selected  according  to  the  objective  of  each  project,  in  consultation 
with  musical  and  literary  sources,  and  supporting  documentation,  which  makes  it 
possible  to  achieve  more  informed  reconstructions.  In  some  cases,  what  is  known  as 
“contrafactum”  (the  substitution  of  the  original  text  for  other  text  without  substantial 
change  to  the  music)  is  undertaken.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  this  was  a  frequent 
contemporary  practice  and  the  elaboration  of  "à  la  carte"  records  constitutes  a  further 
essential historical factor which offers the producer the possibility of adapting proposals 
to sponsors’ interests, facilitating the formulation of new projects. This work is done by 
musicologists  and  literature  researchers,  a  new  type  of  actor  that  emerged  when  the 
scheme in Figure 1 is applied to early poetic music. 

The  content  of  each  record  is  the  result  of  a  joint  decision  involving  the  managing 
director  of  the  recording  company,  the  artistic  director  of  the  ensemble,  and  the 
researchers,  based  on  the  project  objective,  its  scientific  interest  and  the  conditions 
under  which  it  is  to  be  developed.  The  artistic  director  of  the  ensemble  selects  the 
performers, specialists in the style in question, who are of various European origin, in 
an effort to recreate the original conditions of the works' premiere performances. In the 
case of La Grande Chapelle, the intention is also to promote the amalgam of different 
techniques and musical schools, creating a platform for the meeting and the exchange of 
ideas  aimed  at  enriching  knowledge  of  the  past  and  establishing  new  bases  for  a  new 
performance approximation which aspires to become a reference.  

9 

 
 
 
 
After several days of rehearsals, the recording is made in a historic space or a modern 
venue  with  the  appropriate  acoustic  conditions.  The  recording  is  entrusted  to  a 
prestigious European studio to guarantee use of the latest digital technology which will 
most  fully  respect  the  timbre  of  the  original  instruments  and  the  freshness  of  the 
performance.  After  weeks  of  postproduction  and  mastering  work,  the  director  of  the 
ensemble  checks  the  first  edition  of  the  master  in  order  to  make  any  corrections.  It  is 
customary to carry out meticulous checks of three editions in order to ensure a rigorous, 
high quality musical version.  

Another  relevant  component  of  the  product  is  the  libretto,  since  this  provides  a 
historical introduction and informative analysis of the works recovered. The descriptive 
texts  are  written  in  Spanish  by  specialist  musicologists  and  translated  into  English, 
French and German by appropriate experts. The Latin texts of religious pieces may be 
translated  with  the  collaboration  of  a  classical  philologist.  The  libretto  includes 
comment,  sung  texts,  sources/bibliography,  descriptions  of  all  images,  and  credits. 
These  are  intended  to  place  the  musical  content  in  context  and  add  value  to  the 
recording medium.  

The  quality  and  rigor  applied  by  participants  in  this  process  to  these  recordings  is 
required by the final customer: a select and often expert audience knowledgeable about 
this type of music, which expects novelty and high quality from the product. Early and 
poetic  music  audiences  appreciate  the  whole  product  and  each  of  its  separate 
components (contents, performance, recording, libretto). 

Participation  of  the  ensemble  in  national  and  international  early  music  festivals  is 
vitally important to disseminate the recovered repertory (which to the great majority of 
foreign programmers is unknown) and to earn a profit from the efforts dedicated to the 
first recordings of these works and reduce the costs associated with this process.  

Although  Wilson  and  Stockes  (2005;  p.  368)  (Figure  1)  do  not  include  the  financial 
aspect of this process, they identify specific financing difficulties experienced by small 
popular music companies in the sector, which have led to the acquisition of managerial 
skills  and  negotiation  between  independence  and  collaboration  in  the  conduct  of  their 
activities. In the case of early music, there is another agent not considered explicitly in 
Figure 1: the sponsors, which co-finance the performance (concerts) and/or editions of 
the  music  records.  These  may  be  private  entities  acting  within  the  framework  of  their 
social work or communications policy, or public entities acting within the framework of 
their cultural policies (Pratt, 2005; p. 8). 

Once copies of the recording are delivered to sponsoring entities and collaborators, and 
official presentation made, the discs are available to distributors/dealers, in Spain and 
abroad,  which  distribute  them  to  generalist  or  specialist  music  shops.  The  distribution 
plan  includes  announcements  in  specialist  journals,  publication  of  reviews  of  discs 
and/or their inclusion on the websites of performers, record companies, research groups, 
etc.  The  role  played  by  classical  music  radio  and  TV  channels  which  broadcast  these 
products  and  form  opinions,  is  very  important  in  this  sector,  where  the  audience, 
although limited, demands high quality performance. This means they will study expert 
reviews.  

Since 2005, in addition to the recording that sparked the collaboration, six more discs 
have  been  edited  within  the  framework  of  the  poetic  music  collection.  The  four  more 
recent  discs  are  the  first  worldwide  recordings  of  the  particular  works  and  three  have 
received national and international recognition and are regarded as prestigious.  

10 

 
4  Discussion 

Following  Miles  and  Green  (2008;  p.  109)  and  Bakshi  and  Throsby  (2010;  p.  17)  we 
consider that the performance or editing of contemporary revivals (works performed for 
the first time in the present era) constitutes a product innovation.  

In the case of early music studied here, the need for new scientific knowledge (analytic, 
in  Asheim  et  al’s.  (2007)  terminology)  in  the  different  stages  of  performance  and 
editing of new works, suggests that this sector could be defined as scientific knowledge 
intensive. However, since it is a cultural industry, it also has a high symbolic knowledge 
content,  since  it  is  the  rigorous  and  contextual  interpretation  which  adds  exceptional 
value  to  the  performance  and  production  of  this  type  of  music.  Finally,  synthetic 
knowledge  (skills  and  interpretative  richness  of  performers,  recording  techniques)  is 
required to achieve the desired quality.  

The  emergence  of  the  innovative  collection  and  the  product  of  each  of  its  projects 
(records) require, over the course of each project, the interaction of many actors playing 
different roles. This leads to the emergence of a sectoral system of innovation in which 
interactions  give  rise  to  new  innovative  products.  The  recording  company  managing 
director  and  the  artistic  director  of  the  ensemble  are  at  the  core  of  the  system  in  this 
paper,  since  they  interact  directly  with  the  other  elements  (researchers,  their  scientific 
institution,  sponsors,  performers,  recording  studios,  distributors,  media,  festivals, 
concert halls, etc.), which may vary from project to project. 

Furthermore  some  of  the  works  included  in  the  records  are  the  fruits  of  research 
discoveries.  Within  this  context  there  are  several  micro,  independent,  music  record 
companies  whose  main  asset  is  the  management  of  specialized  knowledge  at  the 
frontier.  The  collaboration  with  the  researchers  is  reinforced  by  shared  common 
interests and a common language. In this case, the shared interest is the production of 
new  contemporary  revivals  of  early  music  or  the  editing  of  records  that  are  clearly 
differentiated  from  those  already  in  the  market,  increasing  the  value  of  the  Spanish 
musical heritage, which is the reason for the collection.  

We  have  demonstrated  that  this  interaction  has  been  continuous  from  the  moment  the 
idea of the collection was conceived, and that the participation of the researchers has not 
been limited only to providing the musical and literary contents of the project, but has 
influenced other stages of the production process (ranging from the selection of works 
to the preparation of libretto texts, choice of images, search for sponsors and marketing 
of the new recordings).  

The  managing  director  of  the  recording  company,  who  since  2007  is  also  the  artistic 
director  of  the  ensemble,  and  the  researchers  are  fully  cognizant  that  the  close 
collaboration  that  they  have  maintained  over  the  years  has  greatly  influenced  their 
respective activities within a mutual learning  process. For  the artistic  director, beyond 
the  content  of  each  project,  the  transcriptions  and  documents  provided  by  the 
researchers have had clear repercussions for the way works are directed and performed, 
to respect their richness of interpretation and historical rigour. For the researchers, their 
research  agenda  has  been  influenced  by  this  ongoing  collaboration,  and  shaped  the 
content studied and the way their research has been conducted. First, in terms of their 
research subject, composers and themes, they have worked to provide new scores and 
texts which coincide with the objective of the musical project ongoing at a specific time. 

11 

 
 
The texts chosen and/or adapted are selected for a contemporary audience. Second, the 
transcription of scores is undertaken bearing in mind the needs of the performers and the 
artistic director, who will breathe new life into the works and shape them through an act 
of artistic communication, the ultimate goal of any musical performance.  

The  managing  director  of  the  recording  company/artistic  director  of  the  ensemble  is  a 
musicologist specialised in Spanish Baroque, which means that the situation is similar 
to that in other sectors dependent on research, where the level of qualification of those 
responsible for the company’s interaction with the researchers (absorptive capacity) is a 
significant  factor  in  the  success  of  that  interaction  (García  Aracil  and  Fernández  de 
Lucio,  2008).  It  is  also  a  decisive  factor  for  the  learning  of  the  group  and  the  various 
artists  participating  in  recordings  and  concerts  because  the  artistic  director  passes  on 
new findings about how pieces should be performed. 

The  participation  of  private  and  public  sponsors  has  a  huge  sway  over  the  content  of 
new records and development of the process because they fund projects related to their 
particular  objectives.  Sponsors  can  influence  the  content  and  scope  of  musical 
productions, their editing and distribution, and even the survival of some companies or 
actors in the system, since many are highly dependent on financial sponsorship to carry 
on their activities. The more exclusive or local the music they perform and record, the 
greater  is  their  dependence  on  sponsor  funding.  In  the  Spanish  case,  due  to 
administrative restrictions, collaboration between recording company and researchers is 
essential  to  achieve  desired  results  within  the  available  time  frames,  which  are  often 
short. The search for and involvement of sponsors in each new project is arduous and, 
as  has  been  indicated,  can  require  modifications  to  projects  in  order  to  align  with  the 
interests of specific patrons.  

In this case, CSIC has played a multiple role; the researchers belong to the institution, 
which is also co-editor and sponsor of the collection, in some cases providing resources 
beyond  those  foreseen  by  the  publications  department  in  order  to  offer  CDs  as  an 
institutional gift. CSIC's involvement in the collection is a guarantee to other potential 
sponsors and to the audience. For CSIC, the Poetic Music collection has two important 
benefits.  First,  it  represents  cultural  cooperation  with  industry,  in  a  long-term 
partnership  in  which  all  stakeholders  (researchers,  the  record  company,  the  music 
group) learn, and modify their work. Second, it contributes to the social dissemination 
of results and to the Spanish musical heritage. 

5  Conclusions 

Although the so-called "cultural industries" are included in services, there are cases of 
innovation  in  the  cultural  industries  which  correspond  to  the  paradigm  of  high  tech 
manufacturing sectors. Innovations in the cultural industries lack many of the conditions 
and  circumstances  that  characterise  them  in  the  service  sector  (e.g.  participation  of 
service targets in the innovation process). This is not just a characteristic of the music 
sector, it applies also to other heritage related sectors where scientific discover becomes 
the key characteristic of the innovation process in addition to other circumstances well 
illustrated  in  the  literature  such  as  incorporation  of  ICT,  new  marketing  strategies  or 
organizational changes. In addition, the case in this paper challenges the general belief 
that researchers in the humanities do not get involved into innovation processes.  

12 

 
 
The  innovations  described  in  this  paper  are  produced  in  a  sectoral  innovation  system 
with  features  derived  from  the  characteristics  of  the  actors  and  the  final  product.  The 
cooperation  between  humanities  researchers,  and  the  recording  company  director  and 
the artistic director of the ensemble has a profound effect on the results of each specific 
project  because  the  time  available  to  complete  a  project  is  usually  short  and  the 
knowledge gathered by the researchers is decisive in the ability to define the scope of 
the project in a limited time frame.  

Intensive cooperation over several years has influenced the activities and knowledge of 
the  actors  in  the  system.  It  has  changed  both  the  content  of  study  and  how  the 
researchers  conduct  it,  as  well  as  how  the  artistic  director  and  musicians  conduct  and 
perform the works. A mutual learning by interacting process has taken place. 

This case study highlights the multifaceted role of scientific institutions in the process 
of  innovation  in  this  sector,  which  does  not  respond  to  a  simple  linear  scheme  of 
knowledge transfer. The institution provides the knowledge, through its researchers, and 
also  assists  in  the  distribution  of  the  collection  (since  it  belongs  to  the  institution’s 
publisher);  it  acts  as  a  sponsor  and  participates  in  the  marketing  and  dissemination  of 
cultural  heritage,  organizing  presentations  of  new  records  and  providing  records  as 
institutional gifts.  

These conclusions can be applied to other areas of cultural heritage which are developed 
through  the  interaction  of  multiple  actors  with  specific  characteristics.  We  have 
demonstrated in the early music case that the role of researchers and their institution is 
prominent.  Besides,  this  case  also  is  valid  to  illustrate  that  the  Innovation  System 
concept  relies  on  the  possibility  of  gauging  interactions  among  different  agents, 
becoming therefore this issue into the keystone for their analysis in other areas (sectors, 
regions,  nations,  etc.)  and  revisiting  the  old  debate  about  the  ways  of  measuring 
interactions. 

References 

Amable,  B.,  Palombarini,  S.  (1998),  “Technical  change  and  incorporated  R&D  in  the 
service sector”, Research Policy Vol. 27, pp. 655–675 

Asheim,  B.,  Coenen,  L.and  Moodysson,  J.  (2007),  “Constructing  knowledge-based 
regional  advantage: 
Int.  J. 
for 
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management, Vol. 7, Nos. 2/3/4/5, pp. 140-155.  

innovation  policy”, 

implications 

regional 

Asheim, B.T. and Hansen, H.K. (2009), “Knowledge Bases, Talents, and Contexts: On 
the Usefulness of the Creative Class Approach in Sweden”. Economic Geography, Vol. 
85, No. 4, pp. 425–442. 

Bakhshi, H. and Throsby, D. (2010), “Culture of Innovation. An economic analysis of 
innovation 
at:  NESTA. 
http://www.nesta.org.uk/library/documents/Culture_of_Innovation100610.pdf (accessed 
20 June 2011). 

organisations”.  Available 

cultural 

arts 

and 

in 

Castro-Martínez,  E.,  Fernández  de  Lucio,  I.,  Pérez-Marín,  M.  and  Criado-Boado,  F. 
(2008a),  “La  transferencia  de  conocimientos  desde  las  Humanidades:  posibilidades  y 
características”. Arbor, Vol. 184, No. 732, pp. 619-636. 

13 

 
 
Castro-Martínez, E. C., Molas-Gallart, J. and Fernández de Lucio, I. (2008b), “Knowledge 
transfer in the Human and Social Sciences: the importance of informal relationships and its 
organizational consequences”. Paper presented in the Prime-Latin America Conference in 
at: 
Mexico 
http://digital.csic.es/bitstream/10261/10106/1/AC213_1_ElenaCastroPRIME.pdf  (accessed 
20 June 2011) 

Available 

September 

24-26. 

City, 

Chapain, C. and Comunian, R. (2010), “Enabling and Inhibiting the Creative Economy: 
The Role of the Local and Regional Dimensions in England”, Regional Studies Vol. 44, 
No. 6, pp. 717- 734. 

Consoli,  D.  (2005),  “The  Dynamics  of  Technological  Change  in  UK  Retail  Banking 
Services: an evolutionary perspective”. Research Policy Vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 461 – 480. 

Consoli,  D.  and  Mina  A.  (2009),  “An  evolutionary  perspective  on  health  innovation 
systems”. Journal of Evolutionary Economics, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 297 – 319. 
Cook, N. (2003), "Product or Process? Music as Performance", Martin Clayton, Trevor 
Herbert  and  Richard  Middleton  eds.  The  Cultural  Study  of  Music:  A  Critical 
Introduction, pp. 204-214. Routledge, London. 

Cunningham,  S.  (2002),  “From  cultural  to  creative  industries:  Theory,  industry,  and 
policy implications”. Media International Australia Incorporating Culture and Policy: 
Quarterly  Journal  of  Media  Research  and  Resources,  pp.  54-65.  Available  at 
http://eprints.qut.edu.au/588/ (accessed 31 May 2011). 

Cunningham, S., Cutler, T., Hearn, G., Ryan, M. and Keane, M. (2004), “An Innovation 
Agenda for the Creative Industries: Where is the R&D?” Media International Australia; 
Incorporating Culture & Policy, Vol. 112, pp. 174-185. 

Davis,  C.H.;  Creutzberg,  T.  and  Arthurs,  D.  (2009),  “Applying  an  innovation  cluster 
framework  to  a  creative  industry:  The  case  of  screen-based  media  in  Ontario”. 
Innovation: management, policy & practice, Vol. 11, pp. 201-214. 

Eltham,  B.  (2009),  “Australian  cultural  and  innovation  policies:  Never  the  twain  shall 
meet?” Innovation: management, policy & practice, Vol. 11, pp. 230–239. 

Ettlie,  J.E.  and  Rosenthal,  S.R.  (2011),  “Service  versus  Manufacturing  Innovation”. 
Journal of Product Innovation Management, Vol. 28, pp. 285–299. 

Florida, R. (2003), “The rise of the creative class. How it’s transforming work, leisure, 
community and every day life”, Basic Books, New York. 

Djellal,  F.  and  Gallouj,  F.  (2005),  “Mapping  innovation  dynamics  in  hospitals”. 
Research Policy Vol. 34, pp. 817–835. 

Flyvbjerg,  B.  (2006),  “Five  misunderstandings  about  case-study  work”,  Qualitative 
Inquiry, Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 219-45. 

Gander, J. and Rieple, A. (2002), “Inter-organisational Relationships in the Worldwide 
Popular  Recorded  Music  Industry”.  Creativity  and  innovation  management,  Vol.  11, 
No. 4, pp. 248-254. 

García Aracil, A. and Fernández de Lucio, I. (2008), “Industry-University Interactions 
in  a  Peripheral  European  Region:  An  Empirical  Study  of  Valencian  Firms”.  Regional 
Studies, Vol. 42, No. 2, pp. 215 – 227. 

Hjalager, A.M. (2009), “Cultural Tourism Innovation Systems - The Roskilde Festival”, 
Scandinavian Journal of Hospitality and Tourism, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 266 – 287. 

14 

 
Hauknes, J. (1996), Innovation in the Service Economy. STEP report, nº 7. Available at 
ec.europa.eu/research/conferences/.../report_johan_hauknes_en.pdf 
on 
November 2011. 

(accessed 

Hirsch, P.M. (2000), “Cultural Industries Revisited” Organization Science, Vol. 11, No. 
3, pp. 356–361. 

HKU (2010), “The Entrepreneurial Dimension of the Cultural and Creative Industries”. 
Hogeschoolvor der Kunsten Utrecht, Utrecht. 

Hotho, S. and Champion, K. (2011), “Small businesses in the new creative industries: 
innovation as a people management challenge”. Management Decision, Vol. 49, No. 1, 
pp. 29-54.  

Jaaniste,  L.  (2009),  “Placing  the  creative  sector  within  innovation:  the  full  gamut”. 
Innovation, management, policy & practice, Vol. 11, pp. 215-229. 

Jacob Escauriaza, M., Tintoré Subirana, J.and Torres Torres, X. (2001), “Innovación en 
servicios”  (“Innovation  in  services”).  Colección  Estudios  nº  19.  Cotec  Foundation, 
Madrid. 

Jeffcutt,  P.  and  Pratt,  A.C.  (2002),  “Managing  Creativity  in  the  Cultural  Industries”. 
Creativity and Innovation Management, Vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 225-233. 

Jöckel,  S.,  Will,  A.  and  Nawrah,  U.  (2007),  “Consumer  Preferences  Towards 
Commercial Music Downloads”, Journal of Media Business Studies, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp. 
1-19. 

Kerman,  J.  (1985),  "The  Historical  Performance  Movement",  Contemplating  Music: 
Challenges to Musicology, pp. 182–217. Harvard University Press, Cambridge. 

Lambea, M. and Josa, L. (2007), “Música Poética. Apuesta discográfica del CSIC para 
divulgar la cultura de la Edad de Oro” (“Poetic Music”. The CSIC’s recording gamble 
for  the  diffusion  of  the  culture  of  the  Golden  Age”).  Available  at  Digital  CSIC: 
http://hdl.handle.net/10261/10391  and  http://hdl.handle.net/10261/10392  (accessed  20 
June 2011).  

Le  Blanc,  A.  (2010),  “Cultural  Districts,  A  New  Strategy  for  Regional  Development? 
The South-East Cultural District in Sicily”, Regional Studies, Vol. 44, No. 7, pp. 905 -
917. 

Lorenzen,  M.  and  Frederiksen,  L.  (2005),  “The  management  of  projects  and  product 
experimentation:  examples  from  the  music  industry”,  European  Management  Review, 
Vol.  2, pp. 198–211. 

Lundvall,  B.A.  (2007),  “National  Innovation  Systems  -  Analytical  Concept  and 
Development Tool”. Industry and Innovation, Vol. 14,  No. 1, pp. 95–119. 

Malerba, F. (2002), “Sectoral systems of innovation and production”. Research Policy, 
Vol. 31, pp. 247-264. 

McLean, R., Green, G., Hilditch, J. and Holmes, K. (2010), "The music industry in the 
twenty-first century: challenges and innovation", Management Decision, Vol. 48, No. 9, 
pp. 

Miles  I.  (1994),  “Innovation  in  Services”.  In  M  Dodgson,  R  Rothwell  (Eds.),  The 
Handbook of Industrial Innovation, pp. 243-256. Edward Elgar, Aldershot. 

15 

 
Miles  I,  Kastrinos,  N.,  Flanagan,  K.,  Bilderbeek,  R.  and  den  Hertog,  P.  (1995), 
“Knowledge-intensive  business  services:  users,  carriers  and  sources  of  innovation”. 
European  Innovation  Monitoring  Systems.  EIMS  Publication  No.  15.  Innovation 
Programme, DGXIII, Luxembourg.  

Miles,  I.  (2000),  “Services  Innovation:  Coming  of  Age  in  the  Knowledge-Based 
Economy”.  International  Journal  of  Innovation  Management,  Vol.  4,  No.  4,  pp.  371-
389. 

Miles, I. and Green, L. (2008), “Hidden innovation in the creative industries”. NESTA 
Research report July 2008, NESTA, London. Available at 
http://www.nesta.org.uk/library/documents/Report%2013%20-%20HICI%20v7.pdf 
(accessed 20 June 2011) 

OECD-EUROSTAT  (2005),  “Oslo  Manual:  Proposed  Guidelines  for  collecting  and 
interpreting 
at 
http://www.oecd.org/science/inno/2367580.pdf   (accessed 20 June 2011). 

Technological 

Innovation 

Available 

Data“. 

Paris. 

Potts,  J.D.  (2007),  “Art  &  innovation:  an  evolutionary  economic  view  of  the  creative 
industries”.  Available 
at  http://www.abp.unimelb.edu.au/unesco/ejournal/pdf/art-
innovation.pdf  (accessed 31 May 2011). 

Potts,  J.D.,  Cunningham,  S.D.,  Hartley,  J.  and  Ormerod,  P.  (2008),  “Social  network 
markets:  a  new  definition  of  the  creative  industries”.  Journal  of  Cultural  Economics, 
Vol. 32, No. 3, pp. 166-185. 

Potts,  J.  (2009),  “Introduction:  Creative  industries  &  Innovation  Policy”,  Innovation: 
management, policy & practice, Vol. 11, pp. 138-147. 

Power, D. and Hallencreutz, D. (2002), “Profiting from creativity? The music industry 
in Stockholm, Sweden and Kingston, Jamaica”, Environment and Planning A, Vol. 34, 
pp. 1833 - 1854. 

Pratt,  A.C.  (2005),  “Cultural  industries  and  public  policy”.  International  journal  of 
cultural policy, Vol. 11, No. 1, pp. 31-44.  

Ramlogan, R. and Consoli, D. (2007), “Knowledge, understanding and the dynamics of 
medical innovation”'. European Journal of Economic and Social Systems, Vol. 20, No. 
2, pp. 231 – 249. 

Stoneman, P. (2007), “An introduction to the definition and measurement of soft 
innovation”. WP. Available at  
http://www.nesta.org.uk/library/documents/soft_innovation_working_paper_NESTA.pdf 
(accessed 20 June 2011) 

Stoneman, P. (2008), “Soft innovation: changes in product aesthetics and aesthetic 
products”. Available at 
http://research.mbs.ac.uk/INNOVATION/Portals/0/docs/seminar/Stonemansoftinnovatio
npaper.pdf  (accessed 20 June 2011) 

Sundbo,  J.,  Orfila-Sintes,  F.  and  Sørensen,  F.  (2007),  “The  innovative  behaviour  of 
tourism firms. Comparative studies of Denmark and Spain”. Research Policy, Vol. 36, 
pp. 88–106. 

Sundbo,  J.  (2009),  “Innovation  in  the  experience  economy:  a  taxonomy  of  innovation 
organisations”. The Service Industries Journal, Vol. 29, No. 4, pp. 431–455. 

16 

 
van der Groep, R. (2010), ''Breaking Out' and 'Breaking In': Changing Firm Strategies in 
the Dutch Audiovisual Industry”, Regional Studies, Vol. 44, No. 7, pp. 845 – 858. 

Vence,  X.  and  Trigo,  A.  (2010),  “La  innovación  en  los  servicios:  de  la  especificidad 
sectorial a la diversidad intrasectorial. Análisis de la experiencia española” (“Innovation 
in  services:  from  sectorial  specificity  to  intersectorial  diversity.  An  analysis  of  the 
Spanish experience”). Principios Journal. No. 17, pp. 53-75. 

Wilson,  N.C.  and  Stokes,  D.  (2005),  “Managing  creativity  and  innovation.  The 
challenge  for  cultural  entrepreneurs”.  Journal  of  Small  Business  and  Enterprise 
Development, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 366-378.  

Acknowledgments:   

The  authors  are  especially  grateful  for  contributions,  opinions  and  comments  from 
Dolores  Josa  and  Mariano  Lambea,  researchers  in  the  Poetic  Music  Research  Group, 
and  to  Ana  Ibáñez,  executive  producer  of  Lauda  Música  SL.  They  also  thank  Ignacio 
Fernández  de  Lucio,  researcher  with  INGENIO  (CSIC-UPV),  for  his  revisions  and 
comments. 

The authors dedicate this paper to Angel Recasens Galbas, teacher and maestro, founder 
of La Grande Chapelle and artistic director of Poetic Music projects until his death on 
the 2nd of August 2007. 

1 The term “early music” is generally applied to music prior to 1800, although it is also used to refer to 
music  whose  style  or  performance  is  reconstructed  based  on  manuscript  or  printed  music,  treatises, 
instruments or documents. This means that the term "performance of ancient music" is being substituted 
for  "historically  informed  performance".  See  Joseph  Kerman  (1985)  and  Nicholas  Cook  (2003)  on  the 
impact of the historicist movement during the last decades of the XX century. 
2 “The CSIC's "Poetic Music" record collection slogan is both a proposal and a promise: Poetic music is 
the title of a musical treatise by Joachim Burmeister, written in Latin and published in 1606. This German 
theorist was the first to propose a rhetorical systemisation for musical expression. His intention was the 
same as that which inspired this collection: to produce eloquent music, capable of stirring the feelings of 
the audience, even those of today, through controlled transgression of the rules of composing” (Lambea 
and Josa, 2007, op. cit.).  

17 

 
 
 
                                                 
