City Research Online

City, University of London Institutional Repository

Citation: McDonagh, L. (2012). Rearranging the roles of the performer and the composer 
in the music industry - the potential significance of Fisher v Brooker. Intellectual Property 
Quarterly, 2012(1), pp. 64-76. 

This is the accepted version of the paper. 

This version of the publication may differ from the final published 
version. 

Permanent repository link:  https://openaccess.city.ac.uk/id/eprint/12596/

Link to published version: 

Copyright: City Research Online aims to make research outputs of City, 
University of London available to a wider audience. Copyright and Moral 
Rights remain with the author(s) and/or copyright holders. URLs from 
City Research Online may be freely distributed and linked to.

Reuse: Copies of full items can be used for personal research or study, 
educational, or not-for-profit purposes without prior permission or 
charge. Provided that the authors, title and full bibliographic details are 
credited, a hyperlink and/or URL is given for the original metadata page 
and the content is not changed in any way. 

City Research Online:            http://openaccess.city.ac.uk/            publications@city.ac.uk

              
(First published in Intellectual Property Quarterly 1 (2012), 64-76.)1 

Rearranging the Roles of the Performer and the Composer in the Music Industry – the 

Potential Significance of Fisher v Brooker 

Introduction 

The composer has historically been at the top of the tree in the music industry; most royalties 

due to artists  flow  back to composers/songwriters rather than performers. Over the  last  few 

decades,  the  enactment  of  stronger  performers‟  rights  has  sought  to  redress  this  historical 

imbalance  by  providing  performers  with,  amongst  a  number  of  economic  and  moral  rights, 

the right to receive equitable remuneration for the exploitation and use of their performances. 

However,  this  article  explores  the  fact  that  there  may  be  cases  where  performers  may  be 

„authors‟ for the purpose of copyright, as opposed to performers‟ rights. Some original works 

of  joint authorship  –  musical  arrangements –  may  not have  been traditionally  recognised as 

such within the music industry. For instance, with regard to the making of arrangements by a 

group of musicians, it appears from recent UK case law that as long as a performing musician 

makes  an  original  contribution  to  the  creation  of  an  arrangement,  he  or  she  will  be  a  joint 

author of  the  resulting  work.  As  a  result  of  this,  the  performing  musician  is  deserving  of  a 

share of copyright in that arrangement, and by analogy, a share of licensing revenue from the 

exploitation of the arrangement. However, this conclusion appears to be slightly at odds with 

historical  practices  within  the  music  industry.  Furthermore,  this  raises  further  a  question 

concerning  whether  it  ought  to  be  the  case  that  performers  are  potentially  seen  as  joint 

authors in return for their creative contributions.  

1 Luke McDonagh, LSE Fellow, London School of Economics – l.t.mcdonagh@lse.ac.uk 

Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2034899

 
 
 
                                                             
 
In order to assess these  issues  in detail, this article  first outlines the concept of the  musical 

work under the CDPA, including analysis of the distinction between the composition and the 

arrangement.  The  article  also  discusses  the  historical  hierarchy  of  musicians  in  the  music 

industry, exploring the reasons why the composer  of the work has traditional received more 

royalties  than  the  performer  of  the  work.  An  assessment  of  the  originality  of  compositions 

and  arrangements  is  also  detailed  over  the  course  of  this  article.  Furthermore,  in  order  to 

properly assess the issues, the important UK cases in this area are examined, with a particular 

focus on the case of Fisher v Brooker, a case which clarifies to some degree the law on the 

making of musical arrangements, and which also deals with the complex licensing issues that 

can arise from finding that a band member is in fact a joint author of a recorded arrangement.  

Ultimately, this  article argues that the  law  on authorship and  joint authorship  in this area  is 

clear  -  any  musician  who  adds  sufficient  creative  originality  to  a  musical  work  during  the 

performance and recording  process  is a  joint author of the resulting arrangement.  However, 

although the law is clear, the traditional practices of the music industry may not take account 

of this. For this reason, it is important that musicians in groups place their legal relationship 

to each other, and the works they create, in writing before they begin the artistic process. 

Assessing  the  Nature  of  the  Musical  Work  under  the  CDPA  –  Compositions  and 

Arrangements 

This  article  primarily  focuses  on  copyright  law  issues  in  relation  to  musical  works  and  the 

authorship  and  ownership  of  these  works.  Within  the  music  industry,  the  copyright  in  the 

original  musical  work,  which  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  copyright  in  the  musical 

Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2034899

 
 
 
 
„composition‟, is often a highly valuable copyright.2 However, with respect to musical works, 

the copyright in the composition is not the only potentially significant copyright; in addition 

to  the  copyright  in  the  original  musical  composition  there  may  also  be  copyright  in  a 

subsequent  original  „arrangement‟  of  that  composition.  Before  the  issues  of  authorship, 

ownership and licensing can be examined in this article,  it is first necessary to undertake an 

analysis  of  the  distinction  between  these  two  different  types  of  musical  work.  Moreover, 

before the distinction between these two distinct musical works can be properly assessed, it is 

necessary to discuss the definition of „musical work‟ under UK law. 

It is generally acknowledged that what amounts to a piece of „music‟ is undoubtedly difficult, 

and  perhaps  impossible,  to  define.3  Regarding  the  definition  of  „music‟  for  the  purposes  of 

copyright law, it has been stated that a „reasonably liberal interpretation is called for‟.4 In line 

with  this,  Rahmatian  has  remarked  that  it  is  „wise‟  that  the  legislature  did  not  attempt  to 

define  „music‟  when  enacting  the  CDPA.5  As  detailed  below,  it  is  clear  that the  UK  courts 

take  a  broad  interpretation  of  what  amounts  to  „music‟  and  what  is  encompassed  by  the 

„musical work‟. 

2 See discussion of this copyright at „PRS for Music‟, one of the major copyright collecting societies; accessible 

at http://www.prsformusic.com/aboutus/pages/default.aspx  

3 C. L. Saw, „Protecting the sound of silence in 4`33`` - a timely revisit of basic principles in copyright law,‟ 

European Intellectual Property Review 27(12) (2005), 467, 469. 

4 Laddie also remarked that an original musical work is usually „a combination of sounds appreciated by the ear 

for reasons other than linguistic content‟. H. Laddie, P. Prescott and M. Vitoria, The Modern Law of Copyright 

and Designs (3rd ed.), (London: Butterworths, 2000), 79. 

5 A. Rahmatian, „Music and Creativity as Perceived by Copyright Law,‟ Intellectual Property Quarterly 3 

(2005), 267, 268.  

 
 
                                                             
The  Court  of  Appeal  decision  in  Sawkins  v  Hyperion6  is  the  most  recent,  authoritative 

decision  on  the  nature  of  the  musical  work  under  the  CDPA.  In  Sawkins,  the  claimant 

successfully argued that he owned the copyright in performing editions that he had prepared 

of  public  domain  works  originally  composed  by  Michel-Richard  Lalande.  In  this  case, 

Mummery  L.J.  stated  that  „the  essence  of  music  is  combining  sounds  for  listening  to‟.7 

Mummery L.J. also remarked: 

“Music is not the same as mere noise. The sound of music is intended to produce effects of 

some  kind  on  the  listener‟s  emotions  and  intellect.  The  sounds  may  be  produced  by  an 

organised  performance  on  instruments  played  from  a  musical  score,  though  that  is  not 

essential  for  the  existence  of  the  music  or  of  copyright  in  it...  There  is  no  reason  why,  for 

example,  a  recording  of  a  person‟s  spontaneous  singing,  whistling  or  humming  or 

improvisations  of  sounds  by  a  group of  people  with  or  without  musical  instruments  should 

not be regarded as „music‟ for copyright purposes.”8 

It  is  clear  that  this  notion  of  music  is  broad9;  it  is  not  limited  to  harmony  or  melody. 

Mummery  L.J.  further  stated that  it  would  be  incorrect to  „single  out the  notes  as  uniquely 

6 Sawkins v Hyperion Records Ltd [2005] EWCA Civ 565; [2005] 1 W.L.R. 3281. 

7 Sawkins v Hyperion Records Ltd [2005] 1 W.L.R. 3281, para. 53. 

8 Sawkins v Hyperion Records Ltd [2005] 1 W.L.R. 3281, para. 53. 

9 L. Bently, „Authorship of Popular Music under Copyright Law‟ Information, Communication and Society 

12(2) (2009), 179, 184. S. Ricketson and J. Ginsburg, International Copyright and Neighbouring Rights- The 

Berne Convention and Beyond (2nd ed.), (Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2006), 426 and J. Pila, „Copyright 

and its Categories of Original Works,‟ Oxford Journal of Legal Studies 30(2) (2010), 229, 236-242. For further 

discussion of this point see A. Barron, „Copyright Law‟s Musical Work,‟ Social and Legal Studies 15(1) (2006), 

101, 105-106 and 123-4. 

 
 
                                                             
significant for copyright purposes and to proceed to deny copyright to the other elements that 

make  some  contribution  to  the  sound  of  the  music  when  performed,  such  as  performing 

indications,  tempo  and  performance  practice  indicators‟.10  Therefore,  it  is  clear  that  the 

„musical  work‟  under  the  CDPA  can  encompass  not  only  notes  of  music,  but  also  other 

elements of musical practice and performance. Nonetheless, in Coffey v Warner11, it was held 

that a musical  work cannot exist where  it consists of  mere „extractions‟  from another work. 

Thus, to exist as a  musical work  in  itself12, a smaller work must be separable  from a  larger 

work.  

Originality of Musical Works - Compositions 

Under the CDPA, in addition to the requirement of fixation13, the requirement of originality is 

must  be  satisfied  before  a  musical  work  is  protected  under  copyright  law.14  A  composition 

10 Sawkins v Hyperion Records Ltd [2005] 1 W.L.R. 3281, para. 56. 

11 Coffey v Warner/Chappell Music [2005] FSR (34) 747.  

12 A song lyric is protected separately from an accompanying musical work. CDPA s 3(1) states that a literary 

work „means any work, other than a dramatic or musical work, which is written, spoken or sung‟. In addition, it 

has been noted that even though the human voice is an instrument, sung lyrics are not part of the musical work. 

Peter Hayes v Phonogram Ltd [2003] ECDR 110, see views of Blackburne J. 

13 CDPA s 3(2). Fixation is a basic requirement for copyright protection in the UK. See Merchandising 

Corporation of America Inc v Harpbond Inc [1983] FSR 32. The musical work must be fixed in a tangible form 

for copyright to subsist; until a melody is recorded or written down, it will not have copyright protection . 

Nonetheless, it has been held that a „musical work‟ can exist before it is „fixed‟ , as noted by Park J. in Hadley v 

Kemp [1999] E.M.L.R. 589.  As Mummery L.J.. stated in in Sawkins v Hyperion Records Ltd [2005] EWCA Civ 

565, at para. 53, it is necessary that music be „distinguished from the fact and the form of its fixation as a record 

of a musical composition... fixation in the written score or on a record is not itself the music in which copyright 

subsists‟. 

 
 
                                                             
will  only  be  protected  as  a  musical  work  to  the  extent  that  it  is  sufficiently  original.  As 

discussed  below,  following  the  Infopaq15  judgment  of  the  European  Court of  Justice,  it  has 

been  argued  that  the  originality  standard  has  now  been  effectively  harmonised  in  the  EU, 

which has potential significance for copyright in the UK.16 On the other hand, even if this is 

the  case,  the  traditional  UK  view  of  originality,  as  based  upon  „origination‟  and  „skill, 

judgment and labour‟ may still be of relevance. With respect to the traditional view, Peterson 

J. stated in University of London Press v University Tutorial Press17: 

“The originality which is required relates to the expression of thought. But the Act does not 

require  that  the  expression  be  in  an  original  or  novel  form,  but  that  the  work  must  not  be 

copied from another work – that it should originate from the author”.18 

It  appears  from  Peterson  J.‟s  remarks  that  the  traditional  view  of  „originality‟  in  UK 

copyright law is broadly defined.19 In line with this, it has been noted that it is not necessary 

14 CDPA s 1(1)(a).  

15 Infopaq International A/S v Danske Dagblades Forening (C-5/08) [2009] ECDR 16. 

16 E. Declaye, „Wonderful or Worrisome? The Impact of the ECJ Ruling in Infopaq on UK Copyright Law,‟ 

European Intellectual Property Review 5 (2010), 247. C. Handig, „Infopaq International A/S v Danske 

Dagblades Forening (C-5/08): is the term "work" of the CDPA 1988 in line with the European Directives?‟ 

European Intellectual Property Review 32(2) (2010), 53. 

17 University of London Press Ltd v University Tutorial Press Ltd [1916] 2 Ch 601. 

18 University of London Press Ltd v University Tutorial Press Ltd [1916] 2 Ch 601, at 608-609. This case was 

cited in Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273 by Reid J. at 277.  

19 With respect to Peterson J.‟s remark on the notion of „expression of thought‟, the idea/expression dichotomy 

was discussed in the case of LB (Plastics Ltd v Swish Products Ltd [1979] RPC 551 at 619, 633, where it was 

noted that it is original skill in expression, rather than thought, that is protected by copyright. However, there is 

no mention of „idea/expression‟ dichotomy in the CDPA. For further discussion see H. Laddie, P. Prescott and 

 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                             
that work be „unprecedented‟.20 Indeed, the threshold for originality has traditionally not been 

high.21 In Ladbroke v William Hill22, Lord Reid noted that „skill, judgment and labour‟ on the 

part of the author are the necessary requirements for establishing originality.23 

At this point, it must be stated that the ECJ judgment in Infopaq24 appears to point towards 

using the notion of „intellectual creation‟ as a standard of originality for all copyright works 

within the EU. Previous to this  case, this standard was  mainly of  significance  in the UK as 

the  standard  for  computer  programs/databases  following  the  coming  into  effect  of  the  EU 

Information  Society  Directive.25  However,  this  standard  of  „intellectual  creation‟  is  now 

potentially of great importance in relation to originality of musical works under copyright in 

M. Vitoria, The Modern Law of Copyright and Designs (3rd ed.), (London: Butterworths, 2000), 98 and W. 

Cornish, D. Llewelyn and T. Aplin, Intellectual Property: Patents, Copyright, Trade Marks and Allied Rights 

(7th ed.), (London, Sweet and Maxwell, 2010), 448.  

20 H. Laddie, P. Prescott and M. Vitoria, The Modern Law of Copyright and Designs (3rd ed.), (London: 

Butterworths, 2000), 84. 

21 Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell & Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 (QBD). See also Sawkins v Hyperion Records Ltd 

[2005] 1 W.L.R. 3281. 

22 Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273. 

23 Ladbroke (Football) Ltd v William Hill (Football) Ltd [1964] 1 WLR 273, 278. This principle of copyright 

protection, as founded upon the skill and labour of the author in creating the work, was further reflected in the 

court‟s decision in Designers Guild Limited v Russell Williams (Textiles) Limited [2001] FSR 113. However, not 

every case that features „skill and labour‟ has resulted in a copyright work. See also Exxon Corporation v Exxon 

Insurance Consultants [1982] RPC 69, where it was held that despite skill and labour expounded, one word 

could not amount to a literary work. 

24 Infopaq International A/S v Danske Dagblades Forening (C-5/08) [2009] ECDR 16. 

25 Directive 2001/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the harmonisation of 

certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, Official Journal L 167, 22/06/2001; 

accessible at http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:32001L0029:EN:HTML  

 
                                                                                                                                                                                             
the UK. To some commentators this presents a challenge to the standard of originality as it is 

applied  in the  national  courts of the EU,  including the courts of the UK.26 In this  view, the 

traditional  Ladbroke  requirements  of  „skill,  judgment  and  labour‟  have  seemingly  been 

replaced with a requirement based on the notion of „intellectual creation‟. Indeed, Handig has 

argued  that  the  harmonised  Infopaq  standard  is  probably  higher  than  the  previous  UK 

standard under the CDPA.27  

Furthermore,  in the recent case of  Newspaper Licensing Agency v Meltwater28 the Court of 

Appeal upheld the ruling of Proudman J. in the High Court that the Infopaq test of intellectual 

creation was the test for originality in the UK. However, the Court of Appeal argued that this 

was not a change to the classic idea of originality under UK law, as expressed in the case of 

University of London Press v University Tutorial Press29, as being  based on the  idea of the 

work „originating‟ with the author. In other words, the Court of  Appeal was of the opinion 

that  Infopaq  did  not  change  the  standard  of  originality  under  UK  copyright  with  regard  to 

issues of requisite merit or novelty.30 

26 E. Declaye, „Wonderful or Worrisome? The Impact of the ECJ Ruling in Infopaq on UK Copyright Law,‟ 

European Intellectual Property Review 5 (2010), 247, 248. C. Handig, „Infopaq International A/S v Danske 

Dagblades Forening (C-5/08): is the term "work" of the CDPA 1988 in line with the European Directives?‟ 

European Intellectual Property Review 32(2) (2010), 53, 56.  

27 C. Handig, „Infopaq International A/S v Danske Dagblades Forening (C-5/08): is the term "work" of the 

CDPA 1988 in line with the European Directives?‟ European Intellectual Property Review 32(2) (2010), 53, 56. 

28 Newspaper Licensing Agency v Meltwater [2011] EWCA Civ 890; see also High Court of Newspaper 

Licensing Agency v Meltwater [2010] EWHC 3099 (Ch). 

29 University of London Press Ltd v University Tutorial Press Ltd [1916] 2 Ch 601. 

30 It is interesting to note, however, made no reference to „skill, judgment and labour‟, despite the fact that 

Ladbroke was cited in the judgment. Newspaper Licensing Agency v Meltwater [2011] EWCA Civ 890 para. 19. 

 
 
                                                             
Nonetheless, even if the standard of originality had been changed by Infopaq, this may have 

had  little  relevance  to the  originality  standard  with  respect to  musical  works.  On  this  point 

Derclaye  has  remarked  that  the  standard  of  intellectual  creation  merely  illustrates  that 

„creativity  is  the  criterion  of  originality‟.31  Therefore,  with  respect  to  the  originality  of 

musical  works  even  if  the  originality  standard  had  been  altered  by  Infopaq,  the  classic 

understanding  of  originality,  as  discussed  in  Sawkins32,  would  arguably  still  be  highly 

relevant since, as Declaye has stated, it is arguable that most, if not all, „musical works‟ can 

be described as „creative‟ to some extent.33  

Originality of Musical Works - Arrangements 

As noted above, analysis of the distinction between the „composition‟ and the „arrangement‟ 

is  of  vital  importance  to  this  article.  In  line  with  this,  it  is  clear  that  under  the  CDPA  a 

separate copyright can exist in an „arrangement‟ of a composition as long as the arrangement 

31 E. Declaye, „Wonderful or Worrisome? The Impact of the ECJ Ruling in Infopaq on UK Copyright Law,‟ 

European Intellectual Property Review 5 (2010), 247, 248. 

32 Sawkins v Hyperion Records Ltd [2005] 1 W.L.R. 328 at para. 28-36. For an assessment of this aspect of the 

case see A. Rahmatian, „The Concepts of 'Musical Work' and 'Originality' in UK Copyright Law - Sawkins v. 

Hyperion as a Test Case,‟ International Review of Intellectual Property and Competition Law 40 (5), 560. 

33 E. Declaye, „Wonderful or Worrisome? The Impact of the ECJ Ruling in Infopaq on UK Copyright Law,‟ 

European Intellectual Property Review 5 (2010), 247, 249. Furthermore, if one takes the „intentional view‟ 

advocated by J. Pila, „An Intentional View of the Copyright Work,‟ Modern Law Review 71 (2008), 535, then if 

one intends to create a musical work and it accords with the broad Sawkins definition, then this arguably shows 

sufficient intellectual creativity to satisfy the Infopaq standard with respect to musical works. It is arguable that 

Dr. Sawkins did intend to create a musical work in the form of a performing edition that could be played by 

modern performers. In addition, the process of editing and filling in the gaps in the musical score was arguably 

an example of „intellectual creativity‟. 

 
 
                                                             
is sufficiently original34 and the requisite originality comes from the arranger.35 The owner of 

the original copyright in the composition is not the owner of the new arrangement copyright, 

which  vests  in  the  arranger.36  The  arranger  has  the  same  ownership  rights  under  copyright 

over his or her arrangement as the composer has  in relation to his or her composition, with 

the  caveat  that  the  arrangement  would  require  a  license  for  the  use  of  the  underlying 

composition. It is clear, therefore, that potentially copyright can recognise rights in multiple 

arrangements of the same composition.37  

With  respect  to  originality,  it  can  be  said  that  the  same  low  threshold  of  „originality‟  is 

sufficient in relation to answering the question of whether an adaptation of a work results in a 

34 Austin v Columbia [1917-1923] Mac. CC 398. See also Robertson v Lewis [1976] RPC 169. Further see Lover 

v Davidson (1856) 1 CBNS 182 (involving musical accompaniment to an old air) and Wood v Boosey (1868) LR 

3 QB 223 (involving an operatic pianoforte score). In line with this, Arnold has remarked that it is clear that 

very little is actually required on the part of the arranger „by way of changes to an antecedent musical work‟ for 

the arrangement to be sufficiently „original, and thus capable of attracting a fresh copyright‟. R. Arnold, 

„Reflections on “The Triumph of Music”: Copyrights and Performers‟ Rights in Music,‟ Intellectual Property 

Quarterly 2 (2010), 153, 158. See also L. Abramson and T. Bamford of Harbottle & Lewis in the June 2008 

edition of The In-House Lawyer, 42; accessible at 

http://www.harbottle.com/hnl/upload/documents/Music%20Copyright.pdf.  

35 Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell & Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 (QBD). However a straightforward „cover‟ of a 

work may lack sufficient originality. On this point see also comments of Lewison J. in section 6 of „Copyright 

Claims‟ in Aston Barrett v. Universal Island Rec. Ltd [2006] EWHC 1009 (Ch). 

36 This would usually be the case unless an alternative has been agreed between the two parties.  

37 It must be noted that the effective use of this copyright is subject to licensing requirements and the copyright 

in the new arrangement does not replace or nullify the copyright in the underlying work. An arranger of a 

copyright work must have obtained a licence from the owner of the underlying copyright work in order to 

release and publish the new arrangement because the right to make „adaptations‟ is one of the rights of the 

copyright owner, as is clear from CDPA s 21. 

 
                                                             
new  copyright  work  i.e.  a  new,  original  „arrangement‟  of  the  antecedent  compositional 

work.38  Nevertheless,  where  the  distinction  between  two  different  musical  works  i.e.  the 

„composition‟  and  the  „arrangement‟  has  not  been  clearly  maintained,  potential  difficulties 

may arise, particularly in relation to cases involving joint authorship of musical arrangements 

and any related subsequent licensing disputes. In order to assess the significance of licensing 

in  this  context,  it  is  necessary  to  discuss  the  various  rights  that  apply  to  „composers‟  and 

„performers‟  in  the  context  of  the  music  industry,  as  well  as  to  briefly  outline  the  way 

composers and performers earn royalties from the exploitation of these rights. 

Comparing the Positions of the Composer and the Performer in the Music Industry 

During  the  20th  century,  the  music  industry  expanded  rapidly.  Indeed,  by  the  end  of  the 

1990s, the global music industry was a huge part of the world economy. 39 There is little doubt 

that the commercialisation of music, and the consequent expansion of the music industry over 

the  course  of  the  20th  century,  could  not  have  occurred  without  the  enactment  and 

enforcement of copyright law.40 The music industry still largely operates on the basis that the 

38 Redwood Music Ltd v Chappell & Co Ltd [1982] RPC 109 (QBD). See also Aston Barrett v. Universal Island 

Rec. Ltd [2006] EWHC 1009 (Ch), comments of Lewison J. at para. 10 of the „Copyright Claims‟ section. This 

standard would arguably satisfy the Infopaq „intellectual creation‟ standard since the making of musical 

arrangements requires some degree of creativity. 

39 The peak year of global recorded music sales was 1996, with a figure of approximately US $39 billion in 

sales; accessible at http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/3622285.stm - See further G. Lopes and K. Jopling 

(eds.), The Recording Industry in Numbers (London: IFPI, 2003). 

40 For instance, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission noted in 1994 that copyright is vital for the music 

industry; see generally Monopolies and Mergers Commission, The Supply of Recorded Music: A Report by the 

Monopolies and Mergers Commission on the Supply in the UK of Pre-recorded Compact Discs, Vinyl Discs and 

Tapes Containing Music Cm 2599 (London: HMSO, 1994); accessible at http://www.competition-

 
 
                                                             
first  owner  of  copyright  in  the  musical  work  and/or  the  sound  recording  will  assign,  or 

license,  the  relevant  economic  rights  to  a  publisher,  record  company,  and/or  collecting 

society  for the purpose of  exploitation. In particular, the role of the  „collecting  societies‟  is 

crucial to music licensing. There are a number of music collecting societies operating within 

the UK and Ireland. These organisations collect and distribute copyright royalties on  behalf 

of  composers,  performers  and  record  companies.41  For  present  purposes  the  important 

composers‟  collecting  societies  in  the  UK  are  the  Mechanical  Copyright  Protection  Society 

(MCPS)  and  the  Performing  Rights  Society  (PRS).  „PRS  for  Music‟  is  the  umbrella 

organisation  that  represents  the  interests  of  both  PRS  and  MCPS.42  These  organisations 

operate  in  the  UK,  but  generally  these  organisations  maintain  reciprocal  agreements  with 

equivalent organisations in other states.43  

The  composer,  or  in  a  pop  band  context,  the  „songwriter‟,  is  typically  the  author  of  the 

original  musical work.44 By  way of  assignment or licence, a composer can either register a 

commission.org.uk/rep_pub/reports/1994/356recordedmusic.htm#full 

41 It is generally acknowledged that SACEM in France in 1851 was the first composers‟ collecting agency. R. 

Wallis, „Copyright and Composers‟ in S. Frith and L. Marshall (eds.), Music and Copyright (Edinburgh: 

Edinburgh University Press, 2005, 2nd ed.), 103, 103. 

42 http://www.prsformusic.com/Pages/default.aspx 

43 K. Garnett, G. Davies and G. Harbottle, Copinger and Skone James on the Law of Copyright (London: Sweet 

& Maxwell Ltd, 2010, 16th ed.), 1656. It is noted that while „public performance and national broadcast rights‟ 

would normally be licensed „from the society in which the public performance or broadcast takes place, 

collecting societies (particularly within the EU) compete with each other to offer favourable terms to the major 

international record companies for reproduction rights‟ therefore a record company can choose to deal with only 

one EU society for all of its EU „manufacturing licences‟. 

44 Nevertheless, it has been said that the composer has traditionally been in a „vulnerable‟ position within the 

music industry. R. Wallis, „Copyright and the Composer,‟ in S. Frith and L. Marshall (eds.), Music and 

 
                                                                                                                                                                                             
composition with a collecting society or sign with a publisher „who then retains a share of the 

revenues  in  return  for  assistance  in  promoting  the  work‟.45  Licensing  is  one  of  the  primary 

ways  that  composers  can  earn  money  in  the  music  industry.  For  example,  although  a  large 

amount  of  music  industry  income  is  generated  from  the  „exploitation  of  recordings  of 

performances  of  musical  compositions‟,  composers  often  earn  more  than  performers.46  In 

addition,  a  composer  will  receive  two  possible  streams  of  royalty  income;  one  based  on 

mechanical royalties, via MCPS, and one based on performance royalties, via PRS. It may be 

the case that a performer will only receive one stream, as discussed below.47 

Indeed,  it  is  partially  due  to  the  rationale  that  copyright  should  reward  authors,  i.e. 

composers, that performers were traditionally given very few rights under copyright. This is 

no  longer  the  case.  During  the  last  two  decades  performers‟  rights  have  been  gradually 

expanded.48  Of  particular  importance  is  the  fact  that  performers  are  entitled  to  „equitable 

Copyright (Edinburgh, Edinburgh University Press, 2004), 103. 

45 R. Wallis, „Copyright and the Composer,‟ in S. Frith and L. Marshall (eds.), Music and Copyright (Edinburgh, 

Edinburgh University Press, 2004), 104. 

46 N. Parker, „A Raw Deal for Performers: Part 1 – Term of Copyright,‟ Entertainment Law Review 17(6) (2006), 

161, 161. 

47 The exact terms of the performer‟s contract will depend on the circumstances. J. Barnard, „Performers Rights‟ 

(October 2005); article accessible at http://www.musiclawupdates.com/wp-content/uploads/pdf-articles/Article-

Performers_Rights.pdf. 

48Rome Copyright Convention (1928); Accessible at 

http://www.efc.ca/pages/law/canada/rome.copyright.1928.html 

Dramatic and Musical Performers’ Protection Act, 1958; accessible at 

http://www.opsi.gov.uk/acts/acts1958/pdf/ukpga_19580044_en.pdf 

International Convention for the Protection of Performers, Producers of Phonograms and Broadcasting 

Organisations, 1961(hereafter known as the „Rome Convention‟); accessible at 

 
                                                                                                                                                                                             
remuneration‟  when  their  performances  are  broadcast  or  played  on  radio.  The  collecting 

society  that  distributes  the  „equitable  remuneration‟  to  performers  is  Phonographic 

Performance Limited (PPL).49 

Nonetheless, it has been noted that while the strength of performers‟ rights has increased over 

the last few decades, performers do not have equivalent rights to composers.50 Furthermore, 

session  musicians  are  commonly  asked  to  sign  a  consent  form  detailing  the  limits  of  their 

rights over the works on which they perform,  which is usually authorised by the Musician‟s 

Union  or  an  equivalent  union.51  For  this  reason,  a  session  musician  will  generally  only  be 

given a one off performance  fee rather than a royalty over the recording.52 Nonetheless, the 

CDPA53  provides  performers  with  the  right  to  „equitable  remuneration‟  when  sound 

recordings  of  their  performances  are  broadcast  e.g.  on  radio.54  Depending  on  their  record 

contracts,  high  profile  performers  may  receive  other  income  streams  as  well.  Furthermore, 

performers,  even  if  they  are  not  composers,  can  still  potentially  earn  large  sums  of  money 

http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/ip/rome/trtdocs_wo024.html 

Performances (Moral Rights) Regulations, 2006; accessible at http://www.opsi.gov.uk/si/si2006/20060018.htm 

49 http://www.ppluk.com/ 

50 R. Arnold, „Are Performers Authors? Hadley v Kemp,‟ European Intellectual Property Review 21(9)(1999), 

464, 464-465. 

51 N. Parker, „A Raw Deal for Performers: Part 1 – Term of Copyright,‟ Entertainment Law Review 17(6) (2006), 

161, 163. 

52N. Parker, „A Raw Deal for Performers: Part 1 – Term of Copyright,‟ Entertainment Law Review 17(6) (2006), 

161, 163. 

53 This is the case following the 1996 and 2003 Regulations which amended the CDPA; accessible at 

http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1996/2967/contents/made;   

http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/2498/contents/made  

54 CDPA s 182CA . A performer also holds an „equitable remuneration‟ right for „rental‟. CDPA s 191G. 

 
                                                                                                                                                                                             
within  the  music  industry,  though  a  substantial  portion  of  this  income  often  comes  from 

earnings  arising  from  live  gigs.  Nevertheless,  it  must  be  noted  that  even  in  the  case  of  a 

performer  who  produces  a  unique  and  transcendent  performance  of  a  composition,  the 

performer will still be required to pay a licensing fee to the composer of the work.  

For  the  purposes  of  this  article,  it  is  also  necessary  to  consider  the  position  of  a  musical 

„arranger‟  under  copyright.55  As  noted  above,  copyright  in  an  „arrangement‟  can  exist 

separately to the copyright  in the underlying  musical composition. In  many types of  music, 

„arrangers‟  are  often  simultaneously  the  composers  and/or  performers  of  works,  and  thus, 

they  sometimes  do  not  claim  a  separate  „arrangement‟  copyright  for  their  own  released 

version of the composition, as this is arguably unnecessary. Nonetheless,  in the case of joint 

authorship,  maintaining  a  clearer  demarcation  between  composition  and  „arrangement‟ 

copyright could actually help to resolve some disputes. In addition, in certain forms of music 

such as blues, jazz and other forms of traditional music, it is quite common to claim copyright 

in the arrangement of a public domain work or a copyright work.56 Further to this, in the pop 

music world there are some well known arrangers, such as Nelson Riddle, who are not major 

songwriters or performers, but are skilled arrangers.57  

55 See - 

http://www.prsformusic.com/creators/memberresources/how_it_works/arrangements/pages/arrangements.aspx 

56 As noted above, where copyright is claimed over an arrangement of a copyright work, a licence will have to 

be paid to the owner of the copyright in the underlying work, and respect to moral rights should normally be 

made. 

57 http://www.nelsonriddlemusic.com/nr_bio.htm ; http://www.amazon.com/September-Rain-Life-Nelson-

Riddle/dp/0823076725  

 
 
                                                             
For  the  purposes  of  this  article,  it  is  notable  that  „performers‟  can  sometimes  also  be 

„arrangers‟. However, if a performer is credited as the author of a particular arrangement, and 

this arrangement  is then  covered  by  another artist, the performer would rely on the rules of 

authorship under copyright, rather than performers‟ rights, in order to secure a licence for use 

of  the  arrangement.  Crucially,  due  to  the  fact  that  a  composition  is  often  created  by  one 

songwriter,  but  the  final  released  version  is  performed  by  a  full  band  in  the  studio,  it  is 

possible that a  legal dispute can  arise, subsequent to the creation of a  musical arrangement, 

about  the  authorship  and  ownership  of  that  arrangement.  If  the  arrangement  is  highly 

valuable,  in  terms  of  the  potential  for  generating  licensing  revenue,  this  might  provide  an 

incentive to bring a case before the courts. In fact, as discussed below, a number of cases in 

this area have occurred along these lines in the UK.  

Exploring  the  Distinction  between  the  Composition  and the  Arrangement  in  UK  Case 

Law 

There  have  been a  number of UK cases where  a  particular copyright arrangement has  been 

the subject of a legal dispute. For instance, as outlined below, in both Godfrey v Lees58 and 

Beckingham  v  Hodgens59  the  disputes  centred  on  the  joint  authorship  of  the  particular 

copyright arrangements in question. One reason that these kinds of disputes can occur many 

years subsequent to the recording and release of the musical work  is that it is sometimes the 

case that the band members or musicians involved in the creation of the work did not discuss 

or come to an agreement regarding the distribution of rights in the work before they entered 

the  recording  studio.  Furthermore,  once  a  distinction  is  made  by  courts  between  an 

58 Godfrey v Lees [1995] E.M.L.R. 307 (Ch D). 

59 Beckingham v Hodgens [2002] EWHC 2143 (Ch); [2002] E.M.L.R. 45. 

 
 
                                                             
arrangement  and  an  underlying  work,  previously  unforeseen  licensing  complications  may 

arise. As previously stated, the relevant issues of joint authorship are not considered in detail 

in  this  article.  However,  for  the  purposes  of  this  article  is  necessary  to  note  a  number  of 

issues concerning the cases and the particular arrangements in question. 

In  Godfrey  v  Lees,  the  dispute  concerned  the  copyright  in  recorded  „arrangements‟  of  a 

number  of  songs  by  the  band  Barclay  James  Harvest.  The  producer  of  the  band  had 

contributed string arrangements and other musical elements to the eventual released versions 

of  the  songs  i.e.  the  musical  works  in  question.  The  copyrights  in  the  arrangements  were 

correctly  identified  as  being  distinct  from  the  copyright  in  the  underlying  works  and  the 

producer was awarded a share of joint authorship in the arrangements. However, the producer 

was  estopped  from  claiming  royalties  as  the  court  held  that  he  had  impliedly  given  a 

gratuitous licence to the defendants regarding the works in question. 

In Beckingham v Hodgens, the dispute concerned the well known version of the song „Young 

At Heart‟ released by the band „The Bluebells‟. The  work in question was again recognised 

as an arrangement of the underlying work. It was found that the session musician, a violinist 

known as  „Bobby Valentino‟,  had  contributed the  famous  violin  „hook‟ to the arrangement. 

The court stated that he was entitled to be rewarded with a share in the joint authorship of the 

arrangement.  Furthermore,  unlike  in  Godfrey,  the  joint  author  in  Beckingham  was  not 

prevented by the court from claiming royalties. 

Despite the clarity found on these issues in the above judgments, it appears that when musical 

works are first composed and recorded, the distinction between the underlying work and the 

recorded  arrangement  of  that  work  can  often  blur.  It  is  further  arguable  that  courts  have 

 
 
 
sometimes  found  it  difficult  to  clarify  the  distinction.  For  instance,  in  Hadley  v  Kemp60,  a 

number of the band members of „Spandau Ballet‟ took a case against a fellow band member 

Gary Kemp, arguing for a share in the copyright of a number of Spandau Ballet songs. Gary 

Kemp  was  the  principal  songwriter  of  the  group.  He  wrote  the  lyrics,  chords  and  basic 

melody to the song „True‟, which was one of the group‟s biggest hits, and one of the works 

under dispute. One of the disputes over the song concerned its famous saxophone solo, which 

was played by Steve Norman, a band member. The solo lasted for 16 bars, approximately 9% 

of  the  song.  Norman  devised  this  solo  around  the  chords  that  Kemp  presented  to  him.  The 

court  ultimately  held  that  the  creation  of  the  solo  was  not  a  „significant  and  original 

contribution‟ to the work. Analysis of this notion of „significant and original‟ with regard to 

joint  authorship  is  not  the  subject  of  this  article.  For  the  purposes  of  this  article  it  is 

interesting to note that with regard to the actual „musical work‟ at issue in Hadley it is unclear 

as to whether the musical work, as composed and recorded in „demo‟  form  by  Gary  Kemp, 

was  the  same  „work‟  as  the  eventual  version  of  „True‟,  as  recorded  by  the  entire  band,  or 

whether the eventual band recording was an original „arrangement‟ of Kemp‟s composition.61 

Furthermore, Park J. did not make such a distinction in his judgment, which may indicate that 

the other band members were „claiming co-authorship of the works themselves‟.62 Arnold has 

argued  that  either  outcome  could  have  been  possible,  had  it  been  fully  considered  by  the 

court.63 It has further been noted that „in assessing claims to co-authorship of musical works, 

60 Hadley v Kemp [1999] E.M.L.R. 589 (Ch D). 

61 R. Arnold, „Reflections on “The Triumph of Music”: Copyrights and Performers‟ Rights in Music,‟ 

Intellectual Property Quarterly 2 (2010), 153, 159. 

62 L. Bently, „Authorship of Popular Music in UK Copyright Law,‟ Information, Communication and Society 

12(2) (2009), 179, 191. 

63 R. Arnold, „Are Performers Authors? Hadley v Kemp‟ European Intellectual Property Review 21(9) (1999), 

464, 467-468. 

                                                             
the  vital  first  step  is  for  the  court  correctly  to  identify  the  work  the  subject  of  the  claim  to 

copyright and to distinguish it from any antecedent work‟.64 The fact that the court failed to 

do so arguably  makes the judgement problematic65. Nevertheless, it has been stated that the 

judgment of the High Court in Fisher v Brooker,66 the facts of which are broadly comparable 

with  Hadley,  did  resolve  some  of  these  difficulties,  particularly  with  regard  to  recognising 

joint authorship of arrangements among bandmembers.67 This important case is discussed in 

detail below. 

Fisher v Brooker in the High Court – Recognition of a Work but not an Arrangement? 

In  Fisher,  the  facts  were  similar  in  some  respects  to  the  Hadley  case.  In  this  case  the 

circumstances surrounding the authorship of the famous song „A Whiter Shade of Pale‟ were 

in dispute. This song became a huge hit in the 1960s, and it remains commercially valuable 

today, due in no small part to its popularity in the  market for „ringtones‟. Gary Brooker had 

always been credited with the copyright in the musical work because he wrote the chords and 

melody  of  the  song.  The  song  lyric,  protected  under  the  CDPA  as  a  literary  work,  was 

authored  by  Keith  Reid.  According  to  Gary  Brooker,  this  basic  version  was  originally 

64 R. Arnold, „Reflections on “The Triumph of Music”: Copyrights and Performers‟ Rights in Music,‟ 

Intellectual Property Quarterly 2 (2010), 153, 159. 

65 R. Arnold, „Reflections on “The Triumph of Music”: Copyrights and Performers‟ Rights in Music,‟ 

Intellectual Property Quarterly 2 (2010), 153, 159. 

66 Fisher v Brooker [2006] EWHC 3239 (Ch); [2007] E.M.L.R. 9, on appeal to the Court of Appeal in Fisher v 

Brooker [2008] EWCA Civ 287 and on appeal to House of Lords in Fisher v Brooker [2009] UKHL 41; [2009] 

1 W.L.R. 1764. 

67 This point is made by L. Abramson and T. Bamford of Harbottle & Lewis in the June 2008 edition of The In-

House Lawyer, 42-43; accessible at http://www.harbottle.com/hnl/upload/documents/Music%20Copyright.pdf  

 
 
                                                             
recorded as a bare „demo‟. This  „demo‟ version, referred to by Blackburne J. as „the Song‟, 

was  presented  to  the  other  band  members,  who  then  performed  on  the  final  recorded  and 

released track „A Whiter Shade of Pale‟, referred to by Blackburne J. as „the Work‟.  

„A Whiter Shade of Pale‟ is perhaps most famous for its organ instrumental sections, which 

were created by band member Matthew Fisher during the performance and recording process. 

In  this  case,  as  with  Hadley,  the  instrumental  sections  in  question  were  created  by  a  band 

member in response and counterpoint to a chord structure devised by the main songwriter of 

the group.68 

Abramson and Bamford have asserted that since copyright in a song exists from the time it  is 

reproduced  in  a  material  form,  the  original  demo  version  created  by  Brooker  and  Reid  i.e. 

„the Song‟, was  in  fact the „original work‟  in the case. The released  version of the song  i.e. 

„the  Work‟,  which  featured  Fisher‟s  organ  solo,  should  therefore  be  regarded  as  an 

„arrangement‟ of the original „work‟. The commentators noted that the High Court judgment 

in Fisher did not appear to agree that the demo „version‟ of „A White Shade of Pale‟ was a 

„work‟ for the purpose of copyright. In fact the court appeared to consider the earlier version 

as a draft or something akin to that.69 This has been described as a „wrong‟ interpretation of 

the law by Abramson and Bamford.70  

68 Interestingly, both „the Song‟, as apparently initially presented to the band members in demo form by Gary 

Brooker, and the organ solo featured in „the Work‟, which was devised by Matthew Fisher, were inspired and 

adapted to some extent from separate musical pieces originally composed by Bach i.e. musical works which 

reside in the public domain. Fisher v Brooker [2007] E.M.L.R. 9 at para. 36 

69 L. Abramson and T. Bamford of Harbottle & Lewis in the June 2008 edition of The In-House Lawyer, 42-43; 

accessible at http://www.harbottle.com/hnl/upload/documents/Music%20Copyright.pdf. See also comments of 

Blackburne J. in Fisher v Brooker [2007] E.M.L.R. 9 at para. 52-55. 

 
 
                                                             
In  fact, as detailed  further below, a number of  licensing  complexities could  have arisen had 

Blackburne J. held that the work in question was the „arrangement‟ of Brooker‟s antecedent 

composition. It is possible that these licensing concerns may have influenced the decision of 

the  court  in  finding  that  there  was  no  antecedent  „work‟.71  The  arguments  of  Mr.  Fisher‟s 

counsel, Mr Sutcliffe, were summarised by Blackburne J. in his judgment on this point: 

“He  submitted  that  an  approach  whereby  each  musician  contributing  to  the  arrangement, 

provided  his  contribution  is  significant  (i.e.  non-trivial)  and  original,  can  share  in  the 

copyright  of  the  arrangement  gives  rise  to  practical  problems.  Thus,  if  a  work  exists  in 

multiple  versions, each entitling  its authors to share  in the publishing royalties arising  from 

the  exploitation  of  that  version,  the  work  will  require  multiple  registrations  with  the 

collecting  societies  and  sophisticated  monitoring  to  ensure  that  royalties  are  paid  to  the 

correct parties. Second, he said, if the author of the original work is not one of the arrangers, 

steps  will  have  to  be  taken  to  ensure  that  a  share  of  the  arranger's  copyright  is  paid  to  the 

owner of that original work. Third, he said, if all the band members are in principle entitled to 

a  publishing  royalty,  the  result  will  inevitably  be  a  drastic  paring  down  of  the  share  of 

royalties  payable  to  the  writer  and  publisher  of  the  original  work,  especially  if  there  is  a 

70 L. Abramson and T. Bamford of Harbottle & Lewis in the June 2008 edition of The In-House Lawyer, 42-43; 

accessible at http://www.harbottle.com/hnl/upload/documents/Music%20Copyright.pdf. 

71 Fisher v Brooker [2007] E.M.L.R. 9 at para. 52-58. See also A. Barron, „Introduction: Harmony or 

Dissonance? Copyright Concepts and Musical Practice,‟ Social and Legal Studies 15(1) (2006), 25, 47. Barron 

noted that the fact that joint authors are generally held to be tenants-in-common i.e. holding equal shares, means 

that courts may be wary of multiplying the number of potential owners from whom licence must be obtained for 

various transactions. 

 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                             
multiplicity of versions. In those circumstances, he said, it was hardly surprising that this is 

not something to which writers and publishers have generally agreed.”72 

It is clear from the above argument that Mr. Sutcliffe considered that a finding that Matthew 

Fisher  was  actually  a  joint  author  of  an  „arrangement‟  would  lead  to  huge  difficulties  in 

practice,  in  particular  regarding  the  distribution  of  licensing  royalties.  Nonetheless,  his 

statement arguably reflects the legal reality – „each musician contributing to the arrangement, 

provided  his  contribution  is  significant  (i.e.  non-trivial)  and  original,  can  share  in  the 

copyright of the arrangement‟.73  

Ultimately, in Blackburne J.‟s opinion Fisher was a joint author of „the Work‟.74 However in 

light of the above statement it is arguable that Blackburne J. sought to avoid dealing with the 

licensing  complexities  that  would  have  arisen  had  he  found  that  „the  Work‟  was  an 

arrangement of „the Song‟. As discussed  below the  Court of  Appeal explicitly clarified this 

point, albeit without stating that Blackburne J. had erred in his finding. 

72 Fisher v Brooker [2007] E.M.L.R. 9 at para. 50. 

73 Fisher v Brooker [2007] E.M.L.R. 9 at para. 50. 

74 This article does not deal with the issue of „joint authorship‟ in relation to the Fisher case, a subject that has 

been dealt with comprehensively by other commentators. R. Arnold, „Reflections on "The Triumph of Music": 

copyrights and performers' rights in Music,‟ Intellectual Property Quarterly 2 (2010), 153, 161-164. See also L. 

Bently, „Authorship of Popular Music in UK Copyright Law,‟ Information, Communication and Society 12(2) 

(2009), 179, 191. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                             
Fisher v Brooker in the Court of Appeal – the Arrangement Clarification 

When judgment was handed down in the Court of Appeal, the court took the view that „the 

Work‟  was,  definitively,  an  original  copyright  arrangement  of  the  original  copyright  work 

referred to in the High Court judgment as „the Song‟.75 However Mummery L.J., giving the 

majority  view,  took  this  view  without  reference  to  the  fact  that  the  original  trial  judge, 

Blackburne  J.  did  not  correctly  maintain  the  above  distinction  between  „the  Song‟  and  „the 

Work‟  i.e. the underlying compositional work and the arrangement of that work. Mummery 

L.J. merely began his judgment with the presumption that „the Work‟ was an arrangement of 

„the Song‟ (which was also recognised as a „work‟ in itself).76 

Mummery  L.J.  also  clarified  the  exact  rights  in  question  in  the  case.  He  made  a  clear 

distinction between the rights in „the Song‟ i.e. the underlying musical work, the rights in the 

„the  Work‟  i.e. the arrangement‟ of that work, the rights  in the eventual  sound recording of 

the arrangement that was produced by the band, and the rights of the performers in relation to 

their  performances  on  the  recorded  and  released  „A  Whiter  Shade  of  Pale‟.  Mummery  L.J. 

categorically stated that the case concerned the rights over „the Work‟77 i.e. the arrangement. 

It  is  clear  that  Mummery  L.J.  realised  the  full  legal  ramifications  of  recognising  that  „the 

Work‟ was an arrangement of „the Song‟.78 

75 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 34, comments of Mummery L.J. 

76 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 16, comments of Mummery L.J. 

77 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 34, comments of Mummery L.J. 

78 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 34, comments of Mummery L.J. 

 
 
 
                                                             
Crucially, in order for the arrangement to not amount to an infringement of the copyright in 

„the Song‟, „the Work‟ would need to have been correctly licensed by the copyright holders. 

In  other  words, once  the  Court of  Appeal  had  correctly  recognised  that  „the  Work‟  was  an 

arrangement, it became  necessary  and unavoidable for the court to deal adequately with the 

crucial licensing issues that sprung from this recognition. Interestingly, Mummery L.J. dealt 

with the complicated licensing difficulties that arose from the finding that „the work‟ was an 

arrangement  by  conveniently  finding  numerous  implied  licences  which  at  various  times 

involved  the  implied  consent  of  Brooker,  Fisher  and  Essex  Music,  and  which  covered  the 

making  of  the  arrangement  and  its  subsequent  exploitation.  While  the  finding  of  these 

implied licences is arguably not a fait accompli, it is nonetheless arguable that the approach 

of  Mummery  L.J.  is  preferable  to  that  of  Blackburne  J.  on  this  issue,  since  Blackburne  J. 

largely avoided the importance of the issue of licensing of arrangements.79 

It is hard not to conclude that there was a teleogical element to Mummery L.J.‟s reasoning in 

finding  the  implied  licences.  For  example,  Mummery  L.J.  was  clear  that  in  his  opinion  a 

finding which resulted in „split‟ licensing rights was not in the interests of any of the parties 

involved,  and  he  went  on  to  emphasise  that  in  finding  that  the  implied  licences  existed,  he 

was doing what was logical and necessary in light of the facts.80 For instance, a fundamental 

question in the case concerned whether there existed an implied licence between the owners 

of  copyright  in  „the  Song‟  and  the  makers  of  the  arrangement  known  as  „the  Work‟  which 

allowed  for  the  making  of  and  exploitation  of  the  arrangement.  In  light  of  the  facts  of  the 

case, the court accepted that there was an implied licence from Essex Music that authorised 

79 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 101, comments of Mummery L.J.  

80 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 102, comments of Mummery L.J. 

 
                                                             
the  creation  of  „the  Work‟.81  It  appears  that  Mummery  L.J.  relied  on  the  „necessity‟  of  the 

existence of the implied licence in order to find that the licence did in fact exist.82 However, it 

was also of crucial importance to the case to establish what exactly the effective terms of the 

licence  were.  On  this  point,  the  court  found  that  in  impliedly  granting  licence  to  make  the 

arrangement,  Essex  Music  were  not  attaching  a  condition  that  prevented  Matthew  Fisher 

from  obtaining  an  interest  in  the  jointly  authored  arrangement.83  However,  Mummery  L.J. 

also held that although Fisher was entitled to be recognised as author of the arrangement i.e. 

„the Work‟, he was not entitled to claim royalties as it was found that he had given an implied 

irrevocable  licence  to the  defendants  to  exploit  „the  Work‟.  This  issue  was  appealed  to the 

House of Lords, which ruled on point in 2009, as outlined below. 

The House of Lords – The Final Word on the Royalty Question 

The House of Lords in 200984 reversed the decision of the Court of Appeal in relation to the 

royalty question, concluding that Matthew Fisher was entitled to royalties. However, on this 

point  it has  been  noted that the House of  Lords decision  may  have  an effect on the type of 

royalties that Matthew Fisher can claim: 

“While judgment was given in favour of Fisher, the Law Lords' suggestion that the recording 

contract  granted  a  royalty-free  licence  to  Essex  to  exploit  the  song  in  the  medium  of  the 

original  recording  takes  some  of  the  sheen  off  Fisher's  victory.  He  will  still  be  entitled  to 

81 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 94-97. 

82 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 103, comments of Mummery L.J. 

83 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 100, comments of Mummery L.J. 

84 Fisher v Brooker [2009] UKHL 41; [2009] 1 W.L.R. 1764. 

 
 
 
                                                             
royalty  income  from  cover  recordings  and  live  performances,  but,  if  the  court  is  right, 

royalties from the song as it appears on the iconic first recording will be beyond his reach.” 85 

Nonetheless, Baker and Lawson concluded that the case may have the effect of encouraging 

„a stream of vexatious lawsuits‟ taken by former pop band members and session musicians in 

the near future.86 With respect to the licensing of music within the industry, the Fisher saga is 

revealing in that with every judgment, from the High Cout to the House of Lords, a slightly 

different  licensing  arrangement  was  considered.  From  the  High  Court  case  it  appeared  that 

the  court only  recognised  one  copyright,  „the  Work‟,  of  which  Matthew  Fisher  was  a  joint 

author.  The  High  Court  also  acknowledged  that  he  was  potentially  entitled  to  licensing 

royalties governing the work. The Court of Appeal however stated that Matthew Fisher was a 

joint author of the „arrangement‟, not the underlying composition, and furthermore the court 

held that he was not entitled to royalties for use of the arrangement because he had impliedly 

given  a  licence  in  this  regard  to the  other  relevant  parties,  Gary  Brooker  and  Essex  Music. 

Moreover,  in  the  House  of  Lords,  the  court  decided  that  Matthew  Fisher  was  entitled  to 

receive royalties for some of the rights concerning the „arrangement‟, but that he had granted 

a  royalty-free  licence  to  the  other  parties  governing  the  rights  to  the  arrangment  on  the 

original  released  sound  recording.  The  fact  that three  varying  interpretations  were  given  to 

the  licensing arrangements  in the above  judgments  illustrates the complexity of the  issue of 

licensing in this context. 

85 J. Baker and E. Lawson, „Case Comment - Fisher v Brooker: “Whiter Shade of Pale” organist Matthew Fisher 

wins case in the House of Lords – but with a sting in the tail,‟ Entertainment Law Review 20(8) (2009), 296, 

297-298. 

86 J. Baker and E. Lawson, „Case Comment - Fisher v Brooker: “Whiter Shade of Pale” organist Matthew Fisher 

wins case in the House of Lords – but with a sting in the tail,‟ Entertainment Law Review 20(8) (2009), 296, 

297-298. 

 
                                                             
Reconsidering  the  Role  of  Performers  in  the Music  Industry  –  Should  they be  seen  as 

‘Authors’ of Arrangements? 

It is quite possible that  in the  near  future other „unsung‟ performers, session  musicians and 

other  musical  contributors  will  make  copyright  claims  regarding  other  famous  hit  songs  of 

the past – songs that from a copyright perspective may actually be most accurately described 

as jointly authored „arrangements‟ distinct from the underlying musical works. Nonetheless, 

considering the fact that „performers‟ rights‟ has largely developed to compensate performers 

for the  fact that they generally do  not benefit  from  „authors‟ rights‟,  is  it  now possible that 

some performers could end up with more rights than some composers? If this is the case, then 

the  traditional  music  industry  model  has  been  slightly  turned  on  its  head.  In  fact,  some 

performers i.e. those who can claim joint authorship of arrangements, could potentially begin 

to move towards the top of the revenue tree, with multiple streams of revenue coming from 

both  performers‟  rights  and  copyright.  A  musician  who  is  concurrently  an  arranger  and 

performer would potentially be in a stronger position than a mere „performer‟.  

In  light of this, the question arises  as to whether it  ought to be the case that performers  are 

potentially  seen  as  joint  authors  in  return  for  their  creative  contributions.  In  other  words, 

given  the  increasing  scope  and  value  of  performers‟  rights  in  recent  decades,  should 

performers be able to claim a right over jointly authored arrangements as well?  

If  copyright  is  envisaged  as  a  way  of  encouraging  and  rewarding  creativity  in  the  musical 

context,  copyright  should  surely  encourage  and  reward  the  creative  contributions  of 

musicians  in  this  way.  Furthermore,  it  is  these  final  arrangements  that  are  released  to  the 

public, embodied in the original sound recordings, which are often the best and most valuable 

 
 
 
versions of the „songs‟. In fact, a particular musician‟s creative contribution may be the most 

recognisable  part  of  a  song,  as  was  arguably  the  case  with  respect  to  the  organ  part  in  „A 

Whiter Shade of Pale‟, as described in Fisher. With this in mind, it seems fair that performers 

are entitled to be joint authors of the arrangements to which they add sufficient originality. 

Nonetheless,  even  if  such  a  position  is  legally  and  morally  justifiable,  if  it  is  the  case  that 

performers  are  often  joint  authors  of  arrangements,  this  clearly  has  significant  potential 

consequences for licensing within the music industry. For example, a musician who is a joint 

author of an arrangement is entitled, as a joint author of the work, to a royalty both in relation 

to subsequent recorded cover versions of that particular arrangement, via mechanical rights, 

and  with  regard  to  subsequent  performances  of  that  particular  arrangement,  via  performing 

rights.  As  previously  stated,  and  acknowledged  by  the  courts,  this  would  appear  to  add 

several layers of complexity to the licensing system. Due to the fact that the subsequent cover 

version  of  the  arrangement  would  be  derivative  of  both  the  original  composition  and  the 

particular arrangement, a  licence would  be required  from  both the composer of the original 

work, and the arranger of the arrangement of that work. If there are multiple joint authors of 

the arrangement, because a number of group members have added creative contributions, all 

the joint authors would need to license the work. For the licensee this would not necessarily 

result in a more complex procedure, since a blanket licence fee is typically available for both 

mechanical rights and performing rights. However, the complexities would become apparent 

when the rights are distributed by the collecting societies among both the copyright owner of 

the original composition, and the original arrangement. It has traditionally been the case that 

the  composer  has  received  the  lion‟s  share  of  this  royalty  revenue.  However,  if  there  are 

additional  rights  licensed  over  an  original  arrangement,  the  copyright  owner  of  the 

arrangement copyright would also be due a royalty. 

 
Some  of  these  considerations  are  acknowledged  in  music  industry  practices.  As  previously 

noted, it is often the case that session musicians sign a musician‟s union contract stating that 

they are to receive a one-off fee rather than a royalty right resulting from their performances 

and  contributions.87  Band  members  may  also  sign  an  agreement  with  the  principal 

songwriters  in  the  band  covering  such  issues.88  However,  in  a  case  where  there  is  no 

agreement otherwise  between the members of a group, it would appear following the Fisher 

case that the de facto position is that a musician who adds sufficient originality to an existing 

composition  during  the  performance  and  recording  process  will  be  a  joint  author  of  the 

resulting  arrangement.  Given  the  low  threshold  for  originality,  this  is  probably  a  more 

common  occurrence  than  has  traditionally  been  recognised  in  the  music  industry.  It  is  no 

wonder  that  in  the  judgment  of  the  Court  of  Appeal  in  Fisher  Mummery  L.J.  warned 

musicians to put their relationship to each other in writing before commencing recording. 89  

87 Performances (Moral Rights) Regulations, 2006; accessible at 

http://www.opsi.gov.uk/si/si2006/20060018.htm. A number of sample draft contracts are accessible via the 

internet; http://theoryofmusic.wordpress.com/2009/02/24/draft-of-a-session-musicians-contract/; 

http://www.docstoc.com/docs/14855654/Musician-Work-for-Hire-Agreement; 

http://basschat.co.uk/index.php?s=e99eb19ff0ae8b4ea2c5f44f98e34b02&showtopic=2508&st=20&start=20; 

http://www.musiccontracts101.com/docs/sample/ 

88 See discussion of music industry practices and the kinds of agreements that typically relate to these kinds of 

circumstances in Fisher v Brooker [2007] E.M.L.R. 9 at para. 61-62. Such an agreement was lacking in the case 

of Joyce v Morrisey & Ors [1998] EWCA Civ 1711; [1999] EMLR 233, which involved the defunct band „The 

Smiths‟. The principal songwriters, Johnny Marr and Stephen Morrissey were successfully sued by their fellow 

former band member, Michael Joyce, for a share in the songwriting royalties of the group. 

89 Fisher v Brooker [2008] Bus. L.R. 1123 at para. 105, comments of Mummery L.J. 

 
 
 
                                                             
Conclusion 

Cases  involving  jointly  authored  arrangements  potentially  require  courts  to  make  difficult 

choices regarding  how  licensing revenue should  be  split  in a case where a composition  has 

been authored by one songwriter, but other members of a group have added creativity to the 

final recorded arrangement of the song. As discussed over the course of this article, the courts 

have not always decided these issues in a uniform way. However, despite the complexity that 

may  arise,  this  article  argues  that  the  courts  ought  to  be  primarily  guided  by  the  tenets  of 

copyright law, not by the traditional licensing practices of the music industry. These findings 

may  in  some  cases  lead  to  licensing  considerations,  and  courts  may  have  to  stretch  to  find 

implied  licences  in order to take account of these considerations. Nonetheless, the way that 

licensing revenues are distributed is something for the music industry itself to deal with, not 

the  courts.  Furthermore,  there  has  been  much  recent  criticism  of  the  collective  licensing 

system90, and particularly the  inability of the  music collecting societies to adapt sufficiently 

to the digital age, if an overhaul of the collecting societies does take place in the near future, 

it might be useful for the societies to consider whether the system can be tweaked to make it 

more flexible and accessible to musicians and users, with the licensing of both compositions 

and arrangements in mind. 

90 See generally W. J. Cardi, „Uber-Middleman: Reshaping the Broken Landscape of Music Copyright,‟ Iowa 

Law Review 92 (2007), 835, S. Liebowitz and R. Watt, „How to Best Ensure Remuneration for Creators in the 

Market for Music? Copyright and its Alternatives,‟ Journal of Economic Surveys 20(4) (2006), 513, P. 

Gyertyanfy, „Collective Management of Music Rights in Europe after the CIASC decision,‟ International 

Review of Intellectual Property and Competition Law 41(1) (2010), 59. 

 
 
 
 
                                                             
