Deposit Requirements
for Registration of
Claims to Copyright in
Visual Arts Material

This circular is a simplified version of the deposit requirements for registering
claims to copyright in visual arts materials. It should be viewed only as a basic
guide; the examples on pages 3 and 4 are not meant to be restrictive. For the
deposit regulations of the Copyright Office, see title 37 of the Code of Federal
Regulations, sections 202.19, 202.20, and 202.21.

For instructions on how to register a claim to copyright in visual arts works,

see Circular 40, Copyright Registration for Works of the Visual Arts.

Basic Definitions

It is helpful to know several basic definitions before considering specific
requirements.

Complete Copy

A “complete copy” of an unpublished work is a copy that represents the com­
plete copyrightable content of the work being registered. A complete copy of
a published work is one that contains all elements of the unit of publication,
including those which, if considered separately, would not be copyrightable
subject matter. The copies deposited for registration should be physically
undamaged.

Best Edition

The “best edition” is the edition published in the United States at any time
before the date of deposit in the Copyright Office that the Library of Congress
determines to be most suitable for its purposes. Generally, when more than
one edition is available, the best edition is larger rather than smaller; color
rather than black and white; and printed on archival-quality rather than lesspermanent paper. See Circular 7b, Best Edition of Published Copyrighted Works
for the Collections of the Library of Congress, for additional information.

Identifying Material

“Identifying material” or “ID material” generally consists of two-dimensional
reproduction(s) or rendering(s) of a work in the form of photographic prints,
transparencies, photocopies, or drawings that show the complete copyrightable
content of the work being registered.

Circular 40a2 40a.0915w

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Specifications for Identifying Material

Copyright Notice

Deposit Requirements for Visual Arts Material  ·  2

Copyright Office regulations require the deposit of identify­
ing material instead of copies for three-dimensional works
and for works that have been applied to three-dimensional
objects. Examples of such works include sculpture, toys, jew­
elry, artwork on plates, and fabric or textile attached to or
part of a three-dimensional object such as furniture. Identify­
ing material must also be submitted for any pictorial, graphic,
or sculptural work that exceeds 96" in any dimension.

In certain cases, identifying material is permitted; in other

cases, it is required. (See table on page 3 and 4.) Identifying
material should meet the following specifications.

•	  Type of identifying material: The material should con­

sist of photographic prints, transparencies, photocopies,
drawings, or similar two-dimensional reproductions or
renderings of the work in a form visually perceivable
without the aid of a machine or device.

•	  Color or black and white: If the work is a pictorial or

graphic work, the material should reproduce the actual
colors employed in the work. In all other cases, the mate­
rial can be in black and white or can consist of a repro­
duction of the actual colors.

•	  Completeness: As many pieces of identifying material

should be submitted as are necessary to show clearly the
entire copyrightable content of the work for which regis­
tration is being sought.

•	  Number of sets: Only one set of complete identifying

material is required. note: With respect to threedimensional holograms, contact the Copyright Office for
additional information.

•	  Size: Photographic transparencies must be at least

35mm in size and, if 3" × 3" or less, must be fixed in card­
board, plastic, or similar mounts; transparencies larger
than 3" × 3" should be mounted. All types of identifying
material other than photographic transparencies must
be not less than 3" × 3" and not more than 9" × 12", but
preferably 8" × 10". The image of the work should show
clearly the entire copyrightable content of the work.

•	  Title and dimension: At least one piece of identifying

material must give the title of the work on its front, back,
or mount and should include an exact measurement of
one or more dimensions of the work.

Before March 1, 1989, the use of copyright notice was man­
datory on all published works, and any work first published
before that date should have carried a notice. For works first
published on and after March 1, 1989, use of the copyright
notice is optional.

For a work published with notice of copyright, the notice

and its position on the work must be shown clearly on at
least one piece of identifying material. If necessary because
of the size or position of the notice, a separate drawing or
similar reproduction can be submitted. Such reproduction
should be no smaller than 3" × 3" and no larger than 9" × 12"
and should show the exact appearance and content of the
notice and its specific position on the work. For more infor­
mation about copyright notice, see Circular 3, Copyright
Notice.

For Further Information

By Internet

Online registration, circulars, announcements, regulations,
all application forms, and other materials are available on
the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Telephone

For general information about copyright, call the Copyright
Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476­
0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to
5:00 pm, eastern time, Monday through Friday, except federal
holidays. Recorded information is available 24 hours a day.
To request paper application forms or circulars, call (202)
707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
Copyright Office–COPUBS
101 Independence Avenue, SE
Washington, DC 20559

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Required Deposit

Nature of Work: Two-Dimensional

Deposit Requirements for Visual Arts Material  ·  3

1 copy as published or prepublication
camera-ready copy

ID material preferred in all cases; ID
material required if copy cannot be folded
to 4" thickness or less; 1 copy permitted if
it can be folded to 4" thickness or less

1 complete copy

1 complete copy

1 copy of entire page or pages

1 complete copy

1 photocopy, proof,
drawing, copy, or layout

1 copy

1 copy

1 copy

1 complete copy of best edition of entire collective
work; complete section containing contribution
if published in newspaper; entire page containing
contribution; contribution cut from newspaper;
or photocopy of contribution as published

1 complete copy (or swatch) showing
design repeat and copyright notice, if any

1 complete copy

1 complete copy (or ID
material if work has not
been fixed in repeat)

1 copy or ID material

1 complete copy

1 copy or ID material

1 actual copy if image is visible without
aid of machine or device; otherwise 2
sets of display instructions and 2 sets
of ID material showing displayed image

1 copy of CD-ROM if work published
in that format; otherwise, 2 complete
copies

1 complete copy

1 copy or display
instructions and ID
material of image

1 copy of CD-ROM if
work fixed in that format;
otherwise, 1 complete
copy or ID material

1 copy or ID material

2 complete copies

2 complete copies

1 copy or ID material

1 copy or proof, photocopy,
contact sheet

Advertisements (pictorial)

Artwork for bed, bath, and table linens or
for wearing apparel (For example: heat transfer
or decal already applied to T-shirt)

Blueprints, architectural drawings,
mechanical drawings, diagrams

Book jackets or record jackets

Commercial print published in
newspaper or other periodical

Commercial print or label (For example: ﬂyer,
label, brochure, or catalog used in connection
with sale of goods or services)

Contributions to collective works
(photographs, drawings, cartoons, and
so on published as part of a periodical
or anthology)

Fabric, textile, wallpaper, carpeting, ﬂoor
tile, wrapping paper, yard goods (if applied
to three-dimensional work, see below)

Fabric emblems or patches, decals or
heat transfers (not applied to clothing),
bumper stickers, campaign buttons

Greeting cards, picture postcards,
stationery, business cards, calendars

Holograms

Maps or cartographic material

Patterns, cross-stitch graphs, stitchery
brochures, needlework and craft kits

Pictorial or graphic works (For example:
artwork, drawings, illustrations, paintings)

Pictorial or graphic works fixed only
in machine-readable form

Posters, photographs, prints, brochures,
exhibition catalogs

“Limited edition” posters, prints, or etchings
(published in quantities of fewer than 5
copies, or 300 or fewer numbered copies if
individual author is owner of copyright)

Oversize material (exceeding 96" in any dimension)

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Nature of Work: Three-Dimensional

Artwork or illustrations on 3-d objects
(For example: artwork on plates, mugs)

Fabric or textile attached to or part of
3-d object (such as furniture)

Games

Globes, relief models, or relief maps

Jewelry

Pictorial matter and/or text on box or
container that can be ﬂattened (contents
of container are not claimed)

Prints or labels inseparable from 3-d object
(For example: silk screen label on a bottle)

Sculptures, toys, dolls, molds, relief plaques,
statues

Sculpture (For example: doll) in box with
copyrightable pictorial and/or textual material;
claim in sculpture and artwork/text

Oversize material (exceeding 96" in
any dimension)

1 complete copy if container is
no larger than 12" × 24" × 6";
otherwise, ID material

1 complete copy, including stand
(ID material not acceptable)

ID material or 1 copy if fixed only in
form of jewelry cast in base metal not
exceeding 4" in any dimension

1 copy of box or container if it can be
ﬂattened or 1 paper label

ID material for sculpture plus
1 copy of box and any other
printed material

1 copy if container is no
larger than 12" × 24" × 6"
or ID material*

1 complete copy or
ID material*

1 copy or ID material*

ID material for
sculpture plus copy of
box or ID material*

* Because storage space is limited, the Copyright Office prefers ID material rather than a copy in these cases.

Nature of Work: Architectural

Unconstructed Building

Constructed Building

To be eligible for copyright protection,
architectural works must have been created
on or after December 1, 1990, or have been
unconstructed and embodied only in
unpublished drawings as of that date.
(See Circular 41, Copyright Claims in
Architectural Works, for more information.)

1 complete copy of architectural
drawing or blueprint showing overall
form of building and any interior
arrangement of spaces and/or design
elements in which copyright is claimed

1 complete copy as
described at left plus
ID material in form of
photographs clearly
identifying the architectural
work being registered

circular 40a  reviewed: 09 / 2015  Printed on recycled paper

u.s. government publishing office: 2015-xxx-xxxx / xx,xxx

U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · www.copyright.gov
