CIRCUL AR

How to Investigate
the Copyright Status
of a Work

This Circular offers some practical

In General

guidance on what to look for if you

Methods of Approaching a Copyright Investigation

are investigating the copyright status
of a work.1 It is important to realize,
however, that this circular contains

only general information and that

there are a number of exceptions to

the principles outlined here. In many

cases, it is important to consult with

There are several ways to investigate whether a work is under
copyright protection and, if so, the facts of the copyright.
These are the main ones:

1.  Examine a copy of the work for such elements as
a copyright notice, place and date of publication,
author and publisher. If the work is a sound recording,
examine the disc, tape, cartridge, or cassette in which
the recorded sound is fixed, or the album cover, sleeve,
or container in which the recording is sold.

a copyright attorney before reaching

2.  Search the Copyright Office catalogs and other records.

any conclusions regarding the

copyright status of a work.

3.  Have the Copyright Office conduct a search for you.

A Few Words of Caution About
Copyright Investigations

Copyright investigations often involve more than one of
these methods. Even if you follow all three approaches, the
results may not be conclusive. Moreover, as explained in this
circular, the changes brought about under the Copyright Act
of 1976, the Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988,
the Copyright Renewal Act of 1992, and the Sonny Bono
Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998 must be considered
when investigating the copyright status of a work.

How to Search Copyright Office Catalogs
and Records

Catalog of Copyright Entries

The Copyright Office published the Catalog of Copyright
Entries (CCE) in printed format from 1891 through 1978. From
1979 through 1982, the CCE was issued in microfiche format.

wcopyright.gov

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The CCE is divided into parts according to the classes of works registered. Each CCE segment covers
all registrations made during a particular period of time. Renewal registrations made from 1979
through 1982 are found in Section 8 of the catalog. Renewals prior to that time are generally listed at
the end of the volume containing the class of work to which they pertained.

A number of libraries throughout the U. S. maintain copies of the CCE, and this may provide a
good starting point if you wish to make a search yourself. There are some cases, however, in which a
search of the CCE alone will not be sufficient to provide the needed information. For example:

•  Because the CCE does not include entries for assignments or other recorded documents, it cannot

be used for searches involving the ownership of rights.

•  The CCE entry contains the essential facts concerning a registration, but it is not a verbatim

transcript of the registration record. It does not contain the address of the copyright claimant.
Effective with registrations made since 1982 when the CCE was discontinued, the only method of
searching CCE volumes outside the Library of Congress is by using the Internet to access the online
catalog. The online catalog contains entries from 1978 to the present. Information on accessing
the catalog via the Internet is provided below. The Copyright Office has been digitizing the 660
volumes of the CCE and many are now available at www.archive.org/details/copyrightrecords/.

Individual Searches of Copyright Records

The Copyright Office is located in the Library of Congress, James Madison Memorial Building,
101 Independence Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20559.

Most Copyright Office records are open to public inspection and searching from 8:30 am to
5:00 pm, eastern time, Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. The various records freely
available to the public include an extensive card catalog, an automated catalog containing records
from 1978 forward, record books, and microfilm records of assignments and related documents.
Other records, including correspondence files and deposit copies, are not open to the public for
searching. However, they may be inspected upon request and payment of a search fee.*

*note: Copyright Office fees are subject to change. For current fees, please check the Copyright Office
website at www.copyright.gov, write the Copyright Office, or call (202) 707‑3000 or 1‑877‑476‑0778.

If you wish to do your own searching in the Copyright Office files open to the public, you will be

given assistance in locating the records you need and in learning procedures for searching. If the
Copyright Office staff member actually makes the search for you, a search fee must be charged.
The search will not be done while you wait.

In addition, Copyright Office records in machine-readable form cataloged from January 1, 1978,
to the present, including registration and renewal information and recorded documents, are available
for searching from the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

The Copyright Office does not offer search assistance to users on the Internet.

Searching by the Copyright Office

In General

Upon request and at the statutory rate for each hour or fraction of an hour used, the Copyright
Office staff will search the records of registrations and other recorded docu ments concerning
ownership of copyrights and will provide a written report. If you request a cost estimate, the

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Copyright Office will provide one. Estimates for searches are based on the information you furnish
and are provided for a set fee that is applied toward the cost of the search and report. Fees for
estimates are nonrefundable and may be applied to a search for up to one year from the date of
the estimate. Requests must include an address and telephone number where you may be reached
during business hours and an email address if available.

Certification of a search report is available for an additional fee. Certified searches are frequently

requested to meet the evidentiary requirements of litigation.

Preferred payment is by personal check or credit card. Contact the Copyright Office for

information regarding payment with money orders or by overseas banking institutions.

For information, correspondence, or payment, contact:

Copyright Office GC/I&R/RRC
Attn: RCC
P.O. Box 70400
Washington, DC 20024
phone: (202) 707-6850  (m–f, 8:30–5:00 eastern time)
fax: (202) 252-3485
email: copysearch@copyright.gov

What the Fee Does Not Cover

The search fee does not include the cost of additional certifi cates, photocopies of deposits, or copies
of other Office records. For information concerning these services, see Obtaining Access to and
Copies of Copyright Office Records and Deposits (Circular 6).

Information Needed

The more detailed information you furnish with your request, the less expensive the search will be.
Please provide as much of the following information as possible:

•  the title of the work, with any possible variants

•  the names of the authors, including possible pseudonyms

•  the name of the probable copyright owner, which may be the publisher or producer

•  the approximate year when the work was published or registered

•  the type of work involved (book, play, musical composition, sound recording, photograph, etc.)

•  for a work originally published as a part of a periodical or collection, the title of that publication

and any other information, such as the volume or issue number, to help identify it

•  the registration number or any other copyright data

Motion pictures are often based on other works, such as books or serialized contributions to
periodicals or other composite works. If you want a search for an underlying work or for music from
a motion picture, you must specifically request such a search. You must also identify the underlying
works and music and furnish the specific titles, authors, and approximate dates of these works.

Searches Involving Assignments and Other Documents Affecting Copyright Ownership

For the standard hourly search fee, the Copyright Office staff will search its indexes covering the
records of assignments and other recorded documents concerning ownership of copyrights. The
reports of searches in these cases will state the facts shown in the Office’s indexes of the recorded
documents but will offer no interpretation of the content of the documents or their legal effect.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Limitations on Searches

In determining whether or not to have a search made, you should keep the following points in mind:

No Special Lists  ·  The Copyright Office does not maintain any lists of works by subject or any lists
of works that are in the public domain.

Contributions Not Listed Separately in Copyright Office Records  ·  Individual works such as stories,
poems, articles, or musical compositions that were published as contributions to a copyrighted
periodical or collection are usually not listed separately by title in our records.

No Comparisons  ·  The Copyright Office does not search or compare copies of works to determine
questions of possible infringement or to determine how much two or more versions of a work have
in common.

Titles and Names Not Copyrightable  ·  Copyright does not protect names and titles, and our records
list many different works identified by the same or similar titles. Some brand names, trade names,
slogans, and phrases may be entitled to protection under the general rules of law relating to unfair
competition. They may also be entitled to registration under provisions of trademark laws. For
general questions about the federal trademark registration process contact: Trademark Assistance
Center, 1-800-786-9199 (select option #1), TrademarkAssistanceCenter@uspto.gov, or 600 Dulany
Street, Madison East, Concourse Level, Alexandria, VA 22314. Possible protection of names and
titles under common law principles of unfair competition is a question of state law

No Legal Advice  ·  The Copyright Office cannot express any opinion as to the legal significance or
effect of the facts included in a search report.

Some Words of Caution

Searches Not Always Conclusive

Searches of the Copyright Office catalogs and records are useful in helping to determine the
copyright status of a work, but they cannot be regarded as conclusive in all cases. The complete
absence of any information about a work in the Office records does not mean that the work is
unprotected. The following are examples of cases in which information about a particular work
may be incomplete or lacking entirely in the Copyright Office:

•  Before 1978, unpublished works were entitled to protection under common law without the

need of registration.

•  Works published with notice prior to 1978 may be registered at any time within the first

28-year term.

•  Works copyrighted between January 1, 1964, and December 31, 1977, are affected by the

Copyright Renewal Act of 1992, which automatically extends the copyright term and makes
renewal registrations optional.

•  For works under copyright protection on or after January 1, 1978, registration may be made at
any time during the term of protection. Although registration is not required as a condition
of copyright protection, there are certain definite advantages to registration. For further
information, see Copyright Basics (Circular 1) .

•  Since searches are ordinarily limited to registrations that have already been cataloged, a search

report may not cover recent registrations for which catalog records are not yet available.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

•  The information in the search request may not have been complete or specific enough to

identify the work.

•  The work may have been registered under a different title or as part of a larger work.

Protection in Foreign Countries

Even if you conclude that a work is in the public domain in the United States, this does not
necessarily mean that you are free to use it in other countries. Every nation has its own laws
governing the length and scope of copyright protection, and these are applicable to uses of the work
within that nation’s borders. Thus, the expiration or loss of copyright protection in the United States
may still leave the work fully protected against unauthorized use in other countries. For further
information, see Obtaining Access to and Copies of Copyright Office Records and Deposits (Circular 6);
Renewal of Copyright (Circular 6A); and Duration of Copyright (Circular 15A).

Impact of the Copyright Act on Copyright Investigations

On October 19, 1976, the President signed into law a complete revision of the copyright law of the
United States (title 17 of the United States Code). Most provisions of this statute came into force
on January 1, 1978, superseding the Copyright Act of 1909. These provisions made significant
changes in the copyright law. Further important changes resulted from the Berne Convention
Implementation Act of 1988, which took effect March 1, 1989; the Copyright Renewal Act of 1992
(P.L. 102-307) enacted June 26, 1992, which amended the renewal provisions of the copyright law;
and the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-298) enacted October 27, 1998,
which extended the term of copyrights for an additional 20 years.

If you need more information about the provisions of either the 1909 or the 1976 law, write or
call the Copyright Office. Both laws are available on the Copyright Office website. For information
about renewals, see Renewal of Copyright (Circular 6A). For paper copies of the law, order Copyright
Law of the United States (Circular 92), from:

U.S. Government Printing Office
P .O. Box 979050
St. Louis, MO 63197-9000
web: http://bookstore.gpo.gov
phone: (202) 512-1800 [toll free: 1-866-512-1800]
fax: (202) 512-2104
email: contactcenter@gpo.gov

Or go to the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov/title17 .

For copyright investigations, the following points about the impact of the Copyright Act of 1976,
the Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988, and the Copyright Renewal Act of 1992 should
be considered.

A Changed System of Copyright Formalities

Some of the most sweeping changes under the 1976 Copyright Act involve copyright formalities,
that is, the procedural requirements for securing and maintaining full copyright protection. The old
system of formalities involved copyright notice, deposit, and registration; recordation of transfers
and licenses of copyright ownership; and U. S. manufacture, among other things. In general, while
retaining formalities, the 1976 law reduced the chances of mistakes, softened the consequences of
errors and omissions, and allowed for the correction of errors.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988 reduced formalities, most notably making

the addition of the previously mandatory copyright notice optional. It should be noted that the
amended notice requirements are not retroactive.

The Copyright Renewal Act of 1992, enacted June 26, 1992, automatically extends the term of
copyrights secured between January 1, 1964, and December 31, 1977, making renewal registration
optional. Consult Renewal of Copyright (Circular 6A) for details. For additional information, contact
the Copyright Office by phone at (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free).

Automatic Copyright

Under the present copyright law, copyright exists in original works of authorship created and fixed in
any tangible medium of expression, now known or later developed, from which they can be perceived,
reproduced, or otherwise communicated, either directly, or indirectly with the aid of a machine or
device. In other words, copyright is an incident of creative authorship and is not dependent on
statutory formalities. Thus, registration with the Copyright Office generally is not required, but there
are certain advantages that arise from a timely registration. For further information on the
advantages of reg istration, see Copyright Basics (Circular 1.)

Copyright Notice

The 1909 Copyright Act and the 1976 Copyright Act as originally enacted required a notice of
copyright on published works. For most works, a copyright notice consisted of the symbol ©, the
word “Copyright” or the abbreviation “Copr.,” together with the name of the owner of copyright
and the year of first publication. For example: “© Joan Crane 2004” or “Copyright 2008 by
Abraham Adams.”

For sound recordings published on or after February 15, 1972, a copyright notice might read

“π 1994 XYZ Records, Inc.” See below for more information about sound recordings.

For mask works, a copyright notice might read “µ SDR Industries.” See Federal Statutory

Protection for Mask Works (Circular 100), for more information.

As originally enacted, the 1976 law prescribed that all visually perceptible published copies of
a work, or published phonorecords of a sound recording, should bear a proper copyright notice.
This applies to such works published before March 1, 1989. After March 1, 1989, notice of copyright
on these works is optional. Adding the notice, however, is strongly encouraged and, if litigation
involving the copyright occurs, certain advantages exist for publishing a work with notice.

Prior to March 1, 1989, the requirement for the notice applied equally whether the work was
published in the United States or elsewhere by authority of the copyright owner. Compliance with
the statutory notice requirements was the responsibility of the copyright owner. Unauthorized
publication without the copyright notice, or with a defective notice, does not affect the validity of
the copyright in the work.

Advance permission from, or registration with, the Copyright Office is not required before

placing a copyright notice on copies of the work or on phonorecords of a sound recording.
Moreover, for works first published on or after January 1, 1978, through February 28, 1989,
omission of the required notice, or use of a defective notice, did not result in forfeiture or
outright loss of copyright protection. Certain omissions of, or defects in, the notice of copyright,
however, could have led to loss of copyright protection if steps were not taken to correct or cure
the omissions or defects. The Copyright Office has issued a final regulation (37 CFR 201.20) that
suggests various acceptable positions for the notice of copyright. This regulation is available on
the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov/title37/201/index.html . For further information,
see Copyright Notice (Circular 3).

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Works Already in the Public Domain

In general, once a work enters the public domain, copyright protection cannot be restored. However,
certain exceptions apply to works of foreign origin. For eligible foreign works, copyright protection
is automatically restored under the provisions of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (URAA)
and section 104(a) of the copyright law. Previous to the URAA, the North American Free Trade
Agreement Implementation Act (NAFTA) contained copyright restoration provisions for certain
Canadian and Mexican works.

Under the copyright law in effect prior to January 1, 1978, copyright could be lost in several

situations. The most common were publication without the required notice of copyright, expiration
of the first 28-year term without renewal, or final expiration of the second copyright term. The
Copyright Renewal Act of 1992 automatically renews first term copyrights secured between January
1, 1964, and December 31, 1977.

Scope of Exclusive Rights Under Copyright

The present law has changed and enlarged in some cases the scope of the copyright owner’s rights.
The new rights apply to all uses of a work subject to protection by copyright after January 1, 1978,
regardless of when the work was created.

Duration of Copyright Protection

Works Originally Copyrighted On or After January 1, 1978

A work that is created and fixed in tangible form for the first time on or after January 1, 1978, is
automatically protected from the moment of its creation and is ordinarily given a term enduring
for the author’s life plus an additional 70 years after the author’s death. In the case of “a joint work
prepared by two or more authors who did not work for hire,” the term lasts for 70 years after the last
surviving author’s death. For works made for hire and for anonymous and pseudonymous works
(unless the author’s identity is revealed in the Copyright Office records), the duration of copyright
will be 95 years from publication or 120 years from creation, whichever is less.

Works created before the 1976 law came into effect but neither published nor registered for
copyright before January 1, 1978, have been automatically brought under the statute and are now
given federal copyright protection. The duration of copyright in these works will generally be
computed in the same way as for new works: the life-plus-70 or 95/120-year terms will apply.
However, all works in this category were guaranteed at least 25 years of statutory protection.

Works Copyrighted Before January 1, 1978

Under the law in effect before 1978, copyright was secured either on the date a work was published
with notice of copyright or on the date of registration if the work was registered in unpublished form.
In either case, copyright endured for a first term of 28 years from the date on which it was secured.
During the last (28th) year of the first term, the copyright was eligible for renewal. The copyright law
extends the renewal term from 28 to 67 years for copyrights in existence on January 1, 1978.

However, for works copyrighted prior to January 1, 1964, the copyright still must have been
renewed in the 28th calendar year to receive the 67-year period of added protection. The amending
legislation enacted June 26, 1992, automatically extends this second term for works first copyrighted
between January 1, 1964, and December 31, 1977. For more detailed information on the copyright
term, see Duration of Copyright (Circular 15A).

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Works First Published Before 1978: the Copyright Notice

General Information About the Copyright Notice

In investigating the copyright status of works first published before January 1, 1978, the most
important thing to look for is the notice of copyright. As a general rule under the 1909 law,
copyright protection was lost permanently if the notice was omitted from the first authorized
published edition of a work or if it appeared in the wrong form or position. The form and position
of the copyright notice for various types of works were specified in the copyright statute. Some
courts were liberal in overlooking relatively minor departures from the statutory requirements, but
a basic failure to comply with the notice provisions forfeited copyright protection and put the work
into the public domain in this country.

Absence of Copyright Notice

For works first published before 1978, the complete absence of a copyright notice from a published
copy generally indicates that the work is not protected by copyright. For works first published
before March 1, 1989, the copyright notice is required, but omission could have been cured by
registration before or within five years of publication and by adding the notice to copies published
in the United States after discovery of the omission. Some works may contain a notice, others may
not. The absence of a notice in works published on or after March 1, 1989, does not necessarily
indicate that the work is in the public domain.

Unpublished Works  ·  No notice of copyright was required on the copies of any unpublished work.
The concept of “publication” is very technical, and it was possible for a number of copies lacking a
copyright notice to be reproduced and distributed without affecting copyright protection.

Foreign Editions  ·  In the case of works seeking ad interim copyright,* copies of a copyrighted work
were exempted from the notice requirements if they were first published outside the United States.
Some copies of these foreign editions could find their way into the United States without impairing
the copyright.

*note: “Ad interim copyright” refers to a special short term of copyright available to certain pre‑1978
books and periodicals. For further information on ad interim copyright, see page 11.

Accidental Omission  ·  The 1909 statute preserved copyright protection if the notice was omitted by
accident or mistake from a “particular copy or copies.”

Unauthorized Publication  ·  A valid copyright was not secured if someone deleted the notice and/or
published the work without authorization from the copyright owner.

Sound Recordings  ·  Reproductions of sound recordings usually contain two different types of
creative works: the underlying musical, dramatic, or literary work that is being performed or read
and the fixation of the actual sounds embodying the performance or reading. For protection of the
underlying musical or literary work embodied in a recording, it is not necessary that a copyright
notice covering this material appear on the phonograph records or tapes on which the recording is
reproduced. A special notice is required for protection of the recording of a series of musical,
spoken, or other sounds that were fixed on or after February 15, 1972. Sound recordings fixed before
February 15, 1972, are not eligible for federal copyright protection. The Sound Recording Act of 1971,

--- PAGE BREAK ---

the present copyright law, and the Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988 cannot be applied
or be construed to provide any retroactive protection for sound recordings fixed before February 15,
1972. Such works, however, may be protected by various state laws or doctrines of common law.

The Date in the Copyright Notice

If you find a copyright notice, the date it contains may be important in determining the copyright
status of the work. In general, the notice on works published before 1978 must include the year
in which copyright was secured by publication or, if the work was first registered for copyright in
unpublished form, the year in which registration was made. There are two main exceptions to this rule.

1.  For pictorial, graphic, or sculptural works (Classes F through K under the 1909 law), the law

permitted omission of the year date in the notice.

2.  For “new versions” of previously published or copyrighted works, the notice was not usually
required to include more than the year of first publication of the new version itself. This is
explained further under Derivative Works below.

The year in the notice usually (though not always) indicated when the copyright began. It is,
therefore, significant in determining whether a copyright is still in effect; or, if the copyright has not
yet run its course, the year date will help in deciding when the copyright is scheduled to expire. For
further information about the duration of copyright, see Duration of Copyright (Circular 15A).

In evaluating the meaning of the date in a notice, you should keep the following points in mind:

Works Published and Copyrighted Before January 1, 1978  ·  A work published before January 1, 1978,
and copyrighted on or after January 1, 1930, may still be protected by copyright in the United States
if a valid renewal registration was made during the 28th year of the first term of the copyright. If
renewed by registration or under the Copyright Renewal Act of 1992 and if still valid under the
other provisions of the law, the copyright will expire 95 years from the end of the year in which it
was first secured.

Therefore, the U. S. copyright in any work published or copyrighted prior to January 1, 1930,
has expired by operation of law, and the work has permanently fallen into the public domain in
the United States. On January 1, 1997, copyrights in works first published or copyrighted before
January 1, 1922, expired; on January 1, 1998, copyrights in works first published or copyrighted
before January 1, 1923, expired. After the enactment of the Sony Bono Copyright Extension Act,
works started entering the public domain for the first time since 1998 on January 1, 2019.

Works First Published or Copyrighted Between January 1, 1923, and December 31, 1949, But Not
Renewed  ·  If a work was first published or copyrighted between January 1, 1923, and December 31,
1949, it is important to determine whether the copyright was renewed during the last (28th) year
of the first term of the copyright. This can be done by searching the Copyright Office records or
catalogs as explained previously. If no renewal registration was made, copyright protection expired
permanently at the end of the 28th year from the year date it was first secured.

Works First Published or Copyrighted Between January 1, 1923, and December 31, 1949, and
Registered for Renewal  ·  When a valid renewal registration was made and copyright in the work
was in its second term on December 31, 1977, the renewal copyright term was extended under the
latest act to 67 years. In these cases, copyright will last for a total of 95 years from the end of the year
in which copyright was originally secured. Example: Copyright in a work first published in 1925 and
renewed in 1953 expired on December 31, 2020.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Works First Published or Copyrighted Between January 1, 1950, and December 31, 1963  ·  If a work
was in its first 28-year term of copyright protection on January 1, 1978, it must have been renewed in
a timely fashion to have secured the maximum term of copyright protection. If renewal registration
was made during the 28th calendar year of its first term, copyright would endure for 95 years from
the end of the year copyright was originally secured. If not renewed, the copyright expired at the
end of its 28th calendar year.

Works First Published or Copyrighted Between January 1, 1964, and December 31, 1977  ·  If a work was
in its first 28-year term of copyright protection on June 26, 1992, renewal registration was optional. The
term of copyright for works published or copyrighted during this time period was extended to 95 years
by the Copyright Renewal Act of 1992 and the Sonny Bono Term Extension Act of 1998. There was
no need to make the renewal filing to extend the original 28-year copyright term to the full 95 years.
However, there were several advantages to making a renewal registration during the 28th year

of the original term of copyright. If renewal registration was made during the 28th year of the
original term of copyright, the renewal copyright vested in the name of the renewal claimant on the
effective date of the renewal registration; the renewal certificate constitutes prima facie evidence
as to the validity of the copyright during the renewed and extended term and of the facts stated in
the certificate; and, the right to use the derivative work in the extended term may be affected. See
Extension of Copyright Terms (Circular 15T) for further information.

Unpublished, Unregistered Works  ·  Before 1978, if a work had been neither “published” in the legal
sense nor registered in the Copyright Office, it was subject to perpetual protection under the
common law. On January 1, 1978, all works of this kind, subject to protection by copyright, were
automatically brought under the federal copyright statute. The duration of copyright for these
works can vary, but none of them expired before December 31, 2002.

Derivative Works

In examining a copy (or a record, disc, or tape) for copyright information, it is important to determine
whether that particular version of the work is an original edition of the work or a “new version.” New
versions include musical arrangements, adaptations, revised or newly edited editions, translations,
dramatizations, abridgments, compilations, and works republished with new matter added. The law
provides that derivative works, published or unpublished, are independently copyrightable and that
the copyright in such a work does not affect or extend the protection, if any, in the underlying work.
Under the 1909 law, courts have also held that the notice of copyright on a derivative work ordinarily
need not include the dates or other information pertaining to the earlier works incorporated in it.
This principle is specifically preserved in the present copyright law. Thus, if the copy (or the record,
disc, or tape) constitutes a derivative version of the work, these points should be kept in mind:

•  The date in the copyright notice is not necessarily an indication of when copyright in all the
material in the work will expire. Some of the material may already be in the public domain,
and some parts of the work may expire sooner than others.

•  Even if some of the material in the derivative work is in the public domain and free for use,

this does not mean that the “new” material added to it can be used without permission from
the owner of copyright in the derivative work. It may be necessary to compare editions to
determine what is free to use and what is not.

•  Ownership of rights in the material included in a derivative work and in the preexisting work
upon which it may be based may differ, and permission obtained from the owners of certain
parts of the work may not authorize the use of other parts.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Name in the Copyright Notice

Under the copyright statute in effect before 1978, the notice was required to include “the name of
the copyright proprietor.” The present act requires that the notice include “the name of the owner
of copyright in the work, or an abbreviation by which the name can be recognized, or a generally
known alternative designation of the owner.” The name in the notice (sometimes in combination
with the other statements on the copy, records, disc, tape, container, or label) often gives persons
wishing to use the work the information needed to identify the owner from whom licenses or
permission can be sought. In other cases, the name provides a starting point for a search in the
Copyright Office records or catalogs, as explained at the beginning of this circular.

In the case of works published before 1978, copyright registration is made in the name of the
individual person or the entity identified as the copyright owner in the notice. For works published
on or after January 1, 1978, registration is made in the name of the person or entity owning all the
rights on the date the registration is made. This may or may not be the name appearing in the notice.
In addition to its records of copyright registration, the Copyright Office maintains extensive records
of assignments, exclusive licenses, and other documents dealing with copyright ownership.

Ad Interim

Ad interim copyright was a special short-term copyright that applied to certain books and
periodicals in the English language that were first manufactured and published outside the United
States. It was a partial exception to the manufacturing requirements of the previous U. S. copyright
law. Its purpose was to secure temporary U. S. protection for a work, pending the manufacture of an
edition in the United States. The ad interim requirements changed several times over the years and
were subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications.

The manufacturing provisions of the copyright act expired on July 1, 1986, and are no longer a
part of the copyright law. The transitional and supplementary provisions of the act provide that for
any work in which ad interim copyright was subsisting or capable of being secured on December 31,
1977, copyright protection would be extended for a term compatible with the other works in which
copyright was subsisting on the effective date of the new act. Consequently, if the work was first
published on or after July 1, 1977, and was eligible for ad interim copyright protection, the provisions
of the present copyright act will be applicable to the protection of these works. Anyone investigating
the copyright status of an English-language book or periodical first published outside the United
States before July 1, 1977, should check carefully to determine:

•  whether the manufacturing requirements were applicable to the work, and

•  if so, whether the ad interim requirements were met

note
1. This circular is intended as an overview of some important considerations when researching the
copyright status of a work, particularly when using the Copyright Office’s records. The authoritative
source for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United States Code.
Copyright Office regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Copyright Office
practices and procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright
Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the Compendium are
available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

For Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations, and
related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time,
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 22  REVIEWED: 10 /2016  REVISED: 9/2025

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov

--- PAGE BREAK ---

7 Search Request Form

Library of Congress
Copyright Office
101 Independence Avenue SE
Washington, DC 20559

Records, Research, and
Certification Section
8:30 am to 5:00 pm eastern
Monday through Friday,
Phone: (202) 707‑6850
Fax: (202) 252‑3485

type of work
□ Book  □ Music  □ Motion picture  □ Drama  □ Sound recording  □ Computer program
□ Photograph/artwork  □ Map  □ Periodical  □ Contribution  □ Architectural work  □ Mask work

search information you require
□ Registration  □ Renewal  □ Assignment  □ Address

specifics of work to be searched

Title

Author

Copyright claimant
(Name in © notice)

Approximate year date of publication/creation

Registration number (if known)

e
r
e
h

t
u
c

If you need more space, please attach additional pages.

The fee for a search report is based on a set statutory fee* for the hour(s) or fraction of an hour consumed. The more information
you furnish as a basis for the search, the better service we can provide. The time between the date of receipt of your fee for the
search and your receiving a report will vary, depending on the method of payment (personal check, money order, or credit card)
and on the workload. If you want an estimate for the cost of the search and report, indicate your preference by checking the box
below. There is a separate fee for an estimate.

Names, titles, and short phrases are not copyrightable.

Please read Circular 22 for more information on copyright searches.

Your name

Address

Daytime telephone

Convey results of estimate/search by telephone?  □ Yes  □ No

Fee enclosed?  □ Yes:  amount: $

  Date

Email

□ No

CIRCULAR 22  REVIEWED: 10 /2016  REVISED: 9/2025

*note: Copyright Office fees are subject to change. For current fees for estimates or searches, check the Copyright Office website
at www.copyright.gov, write the Copyright Office, or call the Records, Research, and Certification Section at (202) 707-6850.
