62C

Copyright Registration of
Contributions to Periodicals

This circular is an introduction to

the U.S. Copyright Office’s group

registration accommodation for

contributions to periodicals. It covers

•  Eligibility Requirements

•  Registration Procedure

•  Comparison of Other

Registration Options

For more information, see chapter 1100,

section 1115 of the Compendium of U.S.

Copyright Office Practices.1

The U.S. Copyright Office provides several exceptions to the
general rule of registering one work per application, one
of which is known as group registration of contributions
to periodicals. For the purposes of this accommodation, a
periodical is a collective work that is issued or intended to be
issued on an established schedule in successive issues that are
intended to be continued indefinitely. In general, each issue
bears the same title, as well as numerical or chronological
designations. A contribution is a separate and independent
work that has been published in a periodical. Contributions
to periodicals include articles, photographs, or illustrations
that are published in a newspaper, magazine, or journal.

Contributions that are published only in electronic form

can only be registered under this accommodation if the
publication meets the Office’s definition of a periodical. For
example, contributions to an electronic newsletter containing
multiple articles that is distributed to email subscribers as a
fixed and self-contained work on an established schedule and
is intended to be continued indefinitely would qualify. An
email newsletter containing a single article or essay would not
qualify for this option, because it is not a collective work.

note: As a general rule, websites are not considered periodicals for the purpose of registration, as they are typically
updated on a continual basis; are rarely distributed in successive issues that can be recognized as discrete, self-contained
collective works; and rarely contain numerical or chronological designations that distinguish one update from the next.

Multiple contributions to periodicals may be registered
using one application, filing fee, and deposit when they meet
certain requirements set forth by Office regulations. Otherwise, each work will need to be registered separately with
individual applications, filing fees, and deposits.

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Eligibility for Group Registration

To take advantage of group registration of contributions to periodicals, the following conditions
must be met:

•  All the contributions in the group are created by the same individual.

•  The contributions are not made for hire.

•  The copyright claimant is the same person or entity for all contributions.

•  Each work is first published as a contribution to a periodical.

•  Each contribution is published within a twelve-month period (e.g. January 1, 2015, through

December 31, 2015, or April 1, 2016, through March 31, 2017).

•  For works first published before March 1, 1989, each work bears a separate copyright notice

with the copyright owner’s name, abbreviation, or designation. The name that appears in each
notice must be the same.

Contributions that do not satisfy these requirements cannot be registered using this group regis-

tration option.

Copyright Registration

To register claims to copyright in contributions to periodicals, you must submit the following to the
Copyright Office: (1) a completed group registration form; (2) a nonrefundable filing fee; and (3) the
required deposit copies of your works. For general information about registration, see Copyright
Registration (Circular 2).

note: Copyright Office fees are subject to change. For current fees, see Copyright Office Fees (Circular 4),
available on the Office’s website at www.copyright.gov or call the Office at (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-
476-0778 (toll free).

To register a group of contributions to periodicals, you must complete an online application and

upload your deposit through the Office’s online registration system. If you submit a paper application, the application will be refused, and your effective date of registration will not be established
until the Office receives a completed application through the online registration system together
with the filing fee and deposit copies.

In exceptional circumstances, the Office may waive the online filing requirement. You may submit

a request to waive the online filing requirement in writing. It should explain why you are unable to
use the online application and should be sent to:

Associate Register of Copyrights and Director of Registration Policy and Practice
Registration Program
U.S. Copyright Office
101 Independence Avenue SE
Washington, DC 20559

--- PAGE BREAK ---

After you begin the registration by clicking the phrase “Register a Group Claim,” you will select
either “Contributions to Periodicals TX” (for literary works) or “Contributions to Periodicals VA”
(for visual arts works) as the type of work you are registering. You should select the category that is
most appropriate for the type of authorship that appears in the majority of the contributions in the
group. Examples of literary works include articles, news stories, columns, features, reviews, editorials, essays, quizzes, puzzles, or advertising copy. Examples of visual arts works include photographs,
drawings, illustrations, cartoons, comic strips, prints, art reproductions, charts, diagrams, maps, or
pictorial advertisements.

When you complete the online application, you will be required to identify each contribution
included in the group, including the date of publication for each contribution and the periodical in
which it was first published.

Timing of Registration

The Office encourages you to submit your claims on a quarterly basis instead of an annual or semiannual basis. A contribution to a periodical must be registered in a timely manner to seek statutory
damages and attorneys’ fees in an infringement action. Specifically, an author may seek these remedies if the contribution was registered before the infringement began or within three months after
first publication of the work. By submitting a claim on a quarterly basis, authors preserve their ability to seek statutory damages and attorneys’ fees for any infringements that occur after the effective
date of registration as well as any infringements that occur within three months after publication of
each work in the group.

Identifying the Works

•  List the contributions in chronological order.

•  Works may be published in different periodicals and on different dates.

•  There is no limit on the total number of contributions that may be submitted, although you

must include at least two contributions to use this option.

Titles:

•  Provide a title for each contribution within the group that matches the title on the deposit copy.

•  If the contribution was published without a title, provide a descriptive title that identifies the

general subject matter of the work.

•  If the contributions were published as part of a series, such as an advice column, editorial
column, or cartoon strip, provide the title for that series using the “Series Title” field.

Periodical:

•  Provide the title of the periodical where the contribution was first published.

•  Provide the volume, number, issue date, and ISSN number (if any) for each periodical.

•  Provide the page number(s), if any, where the contribution appeared within the periodical.

Date of Publication:

•  Provide the precise date of first publication (month, day, and year) for the periodical.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Note to Copyright Office Field

The “Note to Copyright Office” field is an optional area of the online application where you can
provide additional information regarding the works being registered.

Deposit Requirements

To register your contributions to a periodical as a group, you must upload an electronic copy of each
contribution as it appeared in the periodical of first publication. This deposit should be a complete
copy of the work being registered, meaning that the deposit is legible, is assembled in orderly form,
is labeled with the title of the contribution, and includes everything to be covered by registration.
You may submit one of the following:

•  The entire issue of the periodical where the contribution was first published.

•  The entire section of the newspaper where it was first published.

•  The specific pages from the periodical where the contribution was first published.

Each individual contribution must be contained in its own separate electronic file in one of the
formats identified on the Office’s list of acceptable file types. The Office prefers you upload the contributions to the electronic registration system in a .zip file containing all the files. The file size for
each uploaded file must not exceed 500 megabytes.

If you are unable to comply with the deposit requirement, you may request special relief. For

more information on special relief, see chapter 1500, section 1508.8 of the Compendium.

Contributions That Do Not Satisfy the Group Registration Requirements

Contributions to periodicals that do not qualify for this registration accommodation may qualify for
multiple work registration under other categories.

Photographers who are unable to register their works as contributions to a periodical may be able

to use the group registration option for published or unpublished photographs. For guidance on
this group registration option, see Copyright Registration of Photographs (Circular 42).

If the contributions have not yet been published, it may be possible to register them as a collec-

tion of unpublished works. For a discussion of this option, see Multiple Works (Circular 34).

The table below provides a comparison of registration accommodations. Alternatively, you may
register a particular article, photograph, illustration, or other contribution on an individual basis.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Registration
Requirements

Type of work

Group Registration
of Published or
Unpublished
Photographs

Each work must be a
photograph

Group Registration
of Contributions
to Periodicals

Each work must be a
visual arts or literary
work

Group Registration of
Unpublished Works

The application may
be used for any type
of work; however, each
work in the group must
be the same type

Application
requirements

The applicant must use
the online application

The applicant must use
the online application

The applicant must use
the online application

Number of
photographs
in the
application

Author

Claimant

Work made
for hire

Publication

The applicant may
include up to 750
photographs in the
group

No limit on the number
of works that may
be included in the
application

The applicant may
include up to ten works
in the group

All the photographs
must be taken by the
same author

All the works must be
created by the same
author

All the works must be
created by the same
author or authors

The claimant for all
the photographs must
be the same person or
organization

The claimant for all the
works must be the same
person or organization

All of the authors must
be listed as copyright
claimant

The photographs may
be created as works
made for hire

The works cannot be
created as  works made
for hire

The works may be
created as works made
for hire

All the works must be
published

All the works must be
unpublished

All the photographs
in the group must
be either published
or unpublished.
Unpublished and
published works may
not be combined on the
same application.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group Registration of
Unpublished Works

n/a

Registration
Requirements

Publication
within a
twelve-month
period

Group Registration
of Contributions
to Periodicals

All the works must be
published within a
twelve-month period
(e.g., January 1, 2010
through December 31,
2010; February 1, 2011
through January 31,
2012; September 15, 2013
through September 14,
2014, etc.)

Group Registration
of Published or
Unpublished
Photographs

Published photographs:
All the photographs
must be published
within the same
calendar year (e.g.,
January through
December 2011;
February through
June 2012; September
through October 2013,
etc.)

Unpublished
photographs: n/a

n/a

n/a

Medium of
publication

Published photographs:
The photographs may
be first published in
any medium

All the works must
be first published as
a contribution to a
periodical

Copyright
notice

Unpublished
photographs: n/a

Published photographs:
If the photographs
were published before
March 1, 1989, each
photograph must
bear an appropriate
copyright notice

Unpublished
photographs: n/a

If the works were
published before
March 1, 1989, each
work must bear an
appropriate copyright
notice

--- PAGE BREAK ---

note
1. This circular is intended as an overview to registering a group of contributions to periodicals. The
authoritative source for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United
States Code. Copyright Office regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Copyright Office practices and procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium
of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the
Compendium are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

For Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time,
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 62C  REVISED: 03 /2021

PRINT: 00 /0000 — 0,000

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov
