56A

Copyright Registration of
Musical Compositions
and Sound Recordings

This circular explains the difference, for

copyright purposes, between musical

compositions and sound recordings

and provides information on

registering both types of works either

separately or on one application.

For specific information about

this topic, see Chapter 800 of the

Compendium of U.S. Copyright

Practices, Third Edition.1 For

registration of sound recordings that

do not contain musical compositions,

or for registration of sound recordings

on a separate application from musical

compositions, see Circular 56.

Sound recordings and musical compositions are considered
two separate works for copyright purposes. Even though
a sound recording is a derivative work of the underlying
musical composition, a copyright in a sound recording is not
the same as, or a substitute for, copyright in the underlying
musical composition. The chart that follows demonstrates
the differences between these two types of works.

Musical
Compositions

Sound
Recordings

Fixation of a
series of sounds
(e.g., a particular
performance)

Performers
Producers
Sound Engineers

Phonorecord
(mp3, CD, LP)

What
is it?

Music
(melody, rhythm, and/
or harmony expressed
in a system of musical
notation) and
accompanying words
(lyrics)

Who is the
author?

Composers
Lyricists
Songwriters

How is it
fixed?

Copy
(sheet music, either
print or digital such
as pdf)

Phonorecord
(mp3, CD, LP)

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Does the owner have the exclusive right to…

Musical
Compositions

Sound
Recordings

reproduce the work?

prepare derivative works?

distribute the copies or phonorecords of the work to the
public by sale or other transfer of ownership, or by rental,
lease, or lending?

perform the work publicly?

display the work publicly?

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Only by means
of a digital audio
transmission

No

A registration for a musical composition covers the music and lyrics (if any) embodied in
that composition, but it does not cover a recorded performance of that composition. Likewise,
a registration for a sound recording of a performance does not cover the underlying musical
composition. For example, the composition “Respect” and a recording of Aretha Franklin singing
“Respect” are two distinct works. The composition itself (i.e., the music and lyrics) is a musical
composition, and a recording of an artist performing that composition is a sound recording.

Determining Whether a Musical Composition and a Sound Recording Can Be
Registered with One Application

Since a musical composition and a sound recording are distinct works, separate registration
applications generally should be submitted for each work. However, you may use one standard
application to register a sound recording and an underlying musical composition when (1) the
musical composition and sound recording are embodied in the same phonorecord and (2) the
claimant for both the musical composition and sound recording are the same.

Examples

•  When an artist performs and records a composition owned by someone else, the artist or

artist’s label (if appropriate) would submit an application for the recording only. For specific
guidance, see Copyright Registration of Sound Recordings (Circular 56).

•  When a songwriter creates a composition that someone else records, the songwriter or
songwriter’s publisher (if appropriate) would submit an application for the musical
composition only. For specific guidance, see Copyright Registration of Musical Compositions
(Circular 50).

•  When a songwriter performs and records the songwriter’s own composition, the songwriter

may submit one application for both the composition and recording.

•  When a record company owns both a composition and a recording of that composition, it may

submit one application for both the composition and recording.

•  When a record company owns both a composition and a recording of that composition,

--- PAGE BREAK ---

and distributes the works to the public as both sheet music and an album at the time of
registration, it should submit two separate applications, with a sheet music deposit for the
music composition and a recording deposit for the sound recording.

Even though it is possible for some applicants described above to register the musical

composition and sound recording on one application, it is very important to follow the instructions
below in order to make sure both works are included on the application. Applicants may always
choose to register sound recordings and musical compositions on separate applications.

note: You may register one sound recording and the underlying musical composition using the
Single Application, a streamlined version of the Standard Application, but only if you meet all three
of the following conditions: (1) the composition and the sound recording are embodied in the same
phonorecord, (2) the author is the only performer featured in the recording, and (3) the author
is the only copyright owner of both works. For more information about these requirements and
procedures, see Using the Single Application (Circular 11).

Example: Anne Smith submits a Single Application to register the sound recording and musical
composition as the sole owner of copyright of both works. The deposit she submits is a
recording of her solo performance of the composition.

Completing the Online Application for Musical Compositions and Sound Recordings

Mistakes in applications lead to delays in registration, so it is important to complete the application
accurately. Instructions for completing the Standard Application appear in the “help” text that
accompanies the application. Here are some tips regarding common points of confusion when an
application includes both a sound recording and a musical composition.

Type of Work

At the beginning of the application, select the
“Sound Recording” option on the “Type of
Work” screen. The questions presented in the
application are based on the type of work you
select, and if you select the wrong option you
will need to start over.

Title

Provide each title exactly as it appears on the work itself, identifying album and track titles using the
title types as shown above. If you are registering one sound recording or one musical composition,
enter one title as “Title of work being registered.”

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Publication

•  Publication occurs when phonorecords of a work are distributed to the public by sale; transfer
of ownership; or by rental, lease, or lending. Offering to distribute phonorecords to a group
of persons for the purpose of further distribution or the purpose of publicly performing the
work also constitutes publication. A public performance does not—in and of itself—constitute
publication.

•  If the work has not been published, answer “no” to the publication question.

•  If the work has been published, answer “yes” to the publication question and give the date

when and nation where the phonorecords were first distributed to the public or first offered to
a group of persons for further distribution or public performance.

Year of Creation

•  The year of creation is the year in which the version of the work to be registered was first fixed
or recorded in any other tangible form. When a work is written or recorded over a period of
time or constitutes a new version of an earlier work, give the year of completion of the final
work or new version.

Author

•  On the Author screen, name the author(s) of the sound recording(s) and musical

composition(s) being registered. The author of a sound recording is the performer(s) featured
in the recording and/or the producer(s) who captured and/or manipulated or edited the
sounds that appear in the final recording. The author of a musical composition is the person
who created the music and/or lyrics.

•  There is also the possibility that the sound recording (and/or musical composition) were works
made for hire. The applicant, not the U.S. Copyright Office, must determine whether a work
meets the statutory definition of a work made for hire. The two types of works that can be
considered a work made for hire are: (1) works prepared by an employee within the scope of
his or her employment; or (2) certain types of specially commissioned works, outlined in the
statute, where the parties signed a written agreement that the work was a “work made for hire.”
If the work was created as a work made for hire, give the name of the employer, not the person
who actually created the music and/or lyrics and sound recording. For more information on
works made for hire, see Works Made for Hire (Circular 30).

Claimant

•  A sound recording and musical composition can only be registered together if the same person
or entity is named as the copyright claimant for both works. For purposes of registration, the
claimant may be the author of both the musical composition and the sound recording, or a
party that owns the copyright in both works.

•  If the claimant is not the author of either the musical composition or the sound recording, the
applicant must also provide a transfer statement by checking one of the boxes (e.g., by written
agreement, by inheritance, etc.) or by explaining how the claimant obtained the rights in the
work in the space provided.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Type of Authorship

Check this box
to describe your
sound recording
authorship.

Use this space to describe
the musical composition
authorship (“music,” “lyrics,”
musical arrangement,” etc.)

Limitation of Claim

•  Complete this space if the work being registered contains an appreciable amount of material that

 » was previously published

 » was previously registered with the U.S. Copyright Office

 » is in the public domain

 » is not owned by the claimant named in the application

Leave this space blank if the work does not contain an appreciable amount of any of this kind of

material.

Submitting the Works to the Copyright Office

To register your sound recording and musical composition, you must send the works to the
Copyright Office. Once a deposit has been submitted, it becomes part of the public record and
cannot be returned.

When registering a sound recording and musical composition that are unpublished or published

solely in a digital form, the Copyright Office strongly encourages you to upload the deposit as a
digital file through the online registration system instead of submitting a physical phonorecord,
such as a CD, flash drive, or other physical storage device. Each file must be uploaded in an
acceptable file format, and each uploaded file must not exceed 500 MB in size. You may compress
the files to fit within that size limit.

When registering a sound recording and musical composition published in a physical format,
such as a compact disc or LP, you should submit two copies of the work in the physical format, even
if there is a corresponding digital version. To submit physical copies of your work after completing
an online application, you should print a shipping slip from the bottom of the “Submit Your Work”
screen and send the shipping slip and deposits in the same package to the address given on the
shipping slip. To submit a physical copy (or copies) of your work with a paper application, complete
Form SR and submit the deposit in the same package with the application and the filing fee.

If the sound recording has been published in the United States in multiple physical formats at the
time of registration, you will need to comply with the “best edition” requirement by sending the two
copies of the “best” edition. The “best” edition generally will be the highest quality edition that has
been publicly distributed in the United States. The Library of Congress has identified hierarchical
criteria for what constitutes the highest quality edition for sound recordings:

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.  Compact disc

2.  Vinyl disc

3.  Open-reel tape

4.  Cartridge tape

5.  Cassette tape

For example, if the work was published both on compact disc and vinyl disc before the date of

the deposit, you should submit two CDs rather than vinyl discs.

Registering Multiple Musical Compositions and Sound Recordings
on One Application

To register multiple sound recordings and musical compositions together on one application, they
must qualify for group registration, as a collective work, or unit of publication. This section provides
specific guidance for registering musical compositions and sound recordings using these methods.
For more general information regarding multiple work registration, see Multiple Works (Circular 34).

Group Registration of Unpublished Works

An applicant may register up to ten unpublished sound recordings and the underlying musical
works using the online group registration option, provided that the musical compositions and
sound recordings were created by the same author or authors and all of the authors are named as
copyright claimants.

When registering multiple musical works and sound recordings using the group registration

option, provide a title for each of the individual works within the collection.

Example One
Three unpublished compositions were written and performed by Jim, Pam, and Dwight.
Assuming there was no transfer of ownership, the authors and owners of all three
compositions and sound recordings are the same, and the compositions may be registered
using the group registration option.

Example Two
Three unpublished compositions were written by Jim and Dwight: Composition 1 was
performed by Jim; Composition 2 was performed by Jim; Composition 3 was performed
by Dwight. Jim and Dwight may register the three unpublished compositions, but not the
three sound recordings, on one group application. Jim may register the sound recordings
for Composition 1 and Composition 2 on one group application, while Dwight registers the
sound recording for Composition 3 on a separate application.

Collective Work

A collective work is a compilation in which a number of contributions, constituting separate
and independent works in themselves, are assembled into a collective whole. The “authorship”
in a collective work comes from the original selection, coordination, and arrangement of the
independent works included in the collective work.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Under the Copyright Act, a collective work is considered one work for purposes of registration. A
registration for a collective work covers the copyrightable authorship in the selection, coordination,
or arrangement of the work. A registration for a collective work also covers the individual
copyrightable works that are contained within the collective work if (1) the collective work and the
individual works are owned by the same party, (2) the individual works have not been previously
published or previously registered, and (3) the individual works are not in the public domain.

Accordingly, an applicant may use one application to register a number of musical compositions
and sound recordings as a collective work if the applicant owns the musical compositions and sound
recordings, selected and arranged the musical compositions and sound recordings into a collective
whole, and the musical compositions and sound recordings have not been previously published or
previously registered.

For example, a CD album with multiple tracks that embody musical compositions and sound

recordings is considered a collective work. If the person or entity selecting, coordinating, or
arranging the musical compositions and sound recordings on the album also owns the sound
recordings, which were not previously published or registered, then the album and sound
recordings may be registered with one application as a collective work. If that party also owns the
musical compositions, which were not previously published or registered, then the collective work
registration would also extend to the musical compositions.

By contrast, if the copyright owner of the musical composition is not the copyright owner of the

sound recordings, the musical compositions and sound recordings must be registered separately.
If an author only selects or arranges the songs on an album, but is not the copyright owner of the
component sound recordings or the musical compositions, or if those recordings or compositions
were previously published or registered, that author may still file an application for a collective
work covering only the selection, coordination, and arrangement of the songs on the album. This
might occur, for example, in the case of a “best of ” album or a movie soundtrack album. But in
this situation, the registration in the collective work would not extend to the individual sound
recordings or the musical compositions on the album.

Example
An artist wrote and performed multiple tracks for a published album and determined how to
arrange the compositions on the album. The artist can register this work on one application
as a collective work. The claim may include the individual musical compositions and sound
recordings as well as the selection, coordination, and arrangement of the tracks on the album.

Unit of Publication

The Copyright Office has a narrow registration accommodation for units of publication. A unit of
publication is a physical package that contains a number of separately fixed works that have been
physically bundled together for distribution to the public as a single, integrated unit. The unit of
publication accommodation is meant to solve a very particular problem: the burdens that would
arise if applicants were required to submit, and the Office were required to process, multiple copies
of the same product in order to register different copyrightable elements of that product.

An applicant may register a number of works as a unit of publication only if:

•  All of the copyrightable elements are recognizable as self-contained works.

•  All of the works claimed in the application are first published as a single unit on the same date.

•  The copyright claimant for all of the works claimed in the unit is the same.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

•  The unit and all of the works within the unit are distributed in a physical format.

•  The unit contains an actual physical copy or phonorecord of all the works.

•  The unit is distributed to the general public.

In the context of music albums, a registration relying on the unit of publication option may also
extend to the copyrightable text, artwork, and photographs that appear in the liner notes for the unit.
When registering these types of works, include a brief statement describing the works in the “Other”
field on the Author screen using the specific terms, such as “artwork,” “photographs,” and “text of
liner notes.” Please note that names and titles of tracks are not copyrightable so the applicant should
not assert a claim in “text of liner notes” if the names and titles of tracks are the only text present in
the unit of publication.

All of the above-mentioned conditions must be met for an applicant to use the unit of publication
option. If any of the compositions were published individually, and not within the unit of publication,
then the unit of publication option cannot be used to register those works. Similarly, an applicant
cannot use the unit of publication option if the tracks, cover art, and/or liner notes are owned by
different parties, or if one or more of the works was published on a different date or in a different
unit of publication.

Example
A CD album with two tracks that embody musical compositions and sound recordings along
with an insert containing text and artwork is considered a unit of publication when they are
distributed to the general public as a single, integrated unit. If the copyright owner of the text
and artwork is the same as the copyright owner of the two musical compositions and sound
recordings, the musical compositions, sound recordings, text and artwork may be registered
together with one application.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

note
1. This circular is intended as an overview of the distinction between musical compositions and
sound recordings. The authoritative source for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in
Title 17 of the United States Code. Copyright Office regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of
Federal Regulations. Copyright Office practices and procedures are summarized in the third edition
of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright law,
regulations, and the Compendium are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

For Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time,
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 56A  REVISED: 03/2021

PRINT: 00 /0000 — 0,000

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov
