Copyright Registration of
Architectural Works

This circular provides information

about registering an architectural work

with the U.S. Copyright Office. It covers

•  Eligibility for copyright protection

•  Authorship in architectural works

•  Submitting an application

•  Submitting a deposit

For specific information, see chapter

900, section 926 of the Compendium

of U.S. Copyright Office Practices.1

An architectural work is the design of a building as embodied
in any tangible medium of expression, including a building,
architectural plans, or drawings. Copyright protects architectural works created on or after December 1, 1990. Copyright
also protects unconstructed architectural works embodied in
unpublished plans or drawings on December 1, 1990, if the
design was constructed on or before December 31, 2002.

The Copyright Office may register a claim to copyright
in an architectural work if the work is a humanly habitable
structure that is intended to be both permanent and stationary. Examples of works that satisfy this requirement include
houses, office buildings, churches, and museums. By contrast,
the Office will refuse to register bridges, cloverleaves, dams,
walkways, tents, recreational vehicles, or boats (although a
house boat that is permanently affixed to a dock may be registerable as an architectural work).

Authorship in Architectural Works

The authorship in an architectural work includes the overall
form of the building—the exterior elevations of the building
when viewed from the front, rear, and sides—as well as any
arrangement and composition of walls or other permanent
structures that divide the interior into separate rooms and
spaces. Copyright does not protect the following elements:

•  Individual standard features of the architectural work,
such as windows, doors, or other staple building components.

•  Standard configurations of spaces, such as a square

bathroom or one-room cabin.

•  Purely functional features of an architectural work,
such as innovations in architectural engineering or
construction techniques.

•  Interior design, such as the selection and placement of

furniture, lighting, paint, or similar items.

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Copyright Registration

To file a claim to copyright in an architectural work, you must submit the following to the Copyright
Office: (1) a completed application form; (2) a nonrefundable filing fee; and (3) the required “deposit
copies” of your work. You must submit your application through the electronic registration system,
and you must use the Office’s Standard Application. If you attempt to use the Single Application or
a paper application, the Office will refuse registration and instruct you to resubmit your claim using
the appropriate form.

An application covers only one architectural work. Multiple architectural works may not be
registered using one application, filing fee, and deposit. This circular highlights issues common to
registrations of architectural works. For more information, see chapter 900, section 926 of the Compendium. For general registration information, see Copyright Registration (Circular 2).

note: Copyright Office fees are subject to change. For current fees, see Copyright Office Fees
(Circular 4), available on the Office’s website at www.copyright.gov or call the Office at (202) 707-3000
or 1-877-476-0778 (toll free).

Mistakes in applications lead to delays in registration, so it is important to complete the applica-

tion correctly. Here are some tips regarding common points of confusion.

Type of Work

At the beginning of the application, select “Work of the Visual Arts” on the “Type of Work” screen.
The questions on the application are based on the type of work you select. If you select the wrong
option, you will need to start over. Line one of the form should give the title of the building.

Publication

An architectural work is deemed published when underlying plans or drawings of the building or
other copies of the building design are distributed or made available to the general public by sale or
other transfer of ownership or by rental, lease, or lending. Mere construction of a building does not
itself constitute publication for purposes of registration.

Year of Completion

The year of completion is the year in which the version of the architectural work you are registering
was first fixed in drawings or any other tangible form. If you are registering an architectural work
that was developed over a long period of time, or a work that constitutes a new version of an earlier
work, give the year of completion of the final work or new version.

note: If the architectural work was embodied in unpublished plans or drawings on or before
December 1, 1990, and if the construction of the design was completed before January 1, 2003, you
should also provide the construction date in the “Note to Copyright Office” field.

Author

The author of an architectural work is the person who created the design of the building, unless the
work is a work made for hire. If the architectural work is a work made for hire, give the name of the
employer, not the person who actually created the architectural work.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Type of Authorship

To register an architectural work, check the box marked “architectural work” in the author created
field on the “Authors screen.” To register the design of a building or other structure, you must assert
only a claim in the “architectural work.” Do not select any other options, such as 2-D artwork, text,
or technical drawing.

important note regarding technical drawings: An architectural work and a technical drawing for an architectural work are separate works. To register both an architectural work and a technical drawing as separate works, you will need to file separate applications for each work.

If you only intend to register an architectural drawing or blueprint as a visual art work (but do
not intend to register the architectural work depicted in those drawings), select “technical drawing.”
If you submit an architectural drawing or blueprint and assert a claim in “technical drawing,”
the registration will cover the diagrams, illustrations, and accompanying text contained within that
drawing, but it will not cover the building or structure depicted in the technical drawing.

Deposit Requirements

To register your architectural work, you must send a copy of the work to the Copyright Office. Once
a deposit has been submitted, it becomes part of the public record and cannot be returned.

The deposit should be one complete copy in visually perceptible form of the most finished form

of an architectural drawing. It must show the overall form of the architectural work (i.e., external
elevations of the building when viewed from the front, rear, and sides) and any interior arrangement
of spaces and/or design elements in which copyright is claimed (i.e., walls or other permanent structures that divide the interior into separate rooms and spaces). If known, include the building site
and names of the architect(s) and draftperson(s) on the deposit.

If the building or structure has been constructed, submit photographs that clearly show several

views of the exterior and interior of the architectural work being registered.

The deposit may be submitted in any form that allows the Copyright Office to access, perceive,
and examine the entire copyrightable content of the work being registered. The Copyright Office
encourages the submission of deposits by upload through the online registration system. Files
uploaded to the electronic system must be submitted in an acceptable format not to exceed 500 MB.
Please note that uploaded deposits of published architectural works will not satisfy the mandatory
deposit requirement. For more information, see Mandatory Deposit of Copies and Phonorecords for
the Library of Congress (Circular 7B). If the name of the architect, draftsperson, or copyright owner
appears in a proprietary legend in the margins of the blueprints or drawings, please upload a separate file containing this information.

note
1. This circular is intended as an overview of copyright registration of architectural works. The
authoritative source for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United
States Code. Copyright Office regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Copyright Office practices and procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium
of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the
Compendium are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

For Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time,
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.govCIRCULAR 41 REVISED: 03/2021 PRINT: 00 /0000 — 0,000
