r
a
l
u
c
r
i
C

w

Copyright Registration
for Multimedia Works

Excluding its container, a multimedia work combines authorship in two or
more media. A multimedia work is often instructional. The authorship may
include:

•	 text
•	 photography
•	 artwork
•	 sounds
•	 sculpture
•	 music
•	 cinematography
•	 choreography

The media may include two or more of the following:

•	 printed	matter,	such	as	a	book,	charts	or	posters,	or	sheet	music
•	 audiovisual	material,	such	as	a	filmstrip,	slides,	videotape,	or	videodisc
•	 a	phonorecord,	such	as	an	audiodisc	or	audiotape	or
•	 a	machine-readable	copy,	such	as	a	computer-read	disc,	tape,	or	chip

A	multimedia	work	may	have	several	copyrightable	elements,	usually

including	a	motion-picture	element	or	other	audiovisual	element,	or	a	sound
recording element. For the purpose of copyright registration, it is important to
identify the separate copyrightable elements contained in the multimedia work.
Identifying the elements will help you to determine which application form to
use and what type of material to deposit.

An audiovisual element consists of a series of related pictorial images intended

to	be	shown	by	the	use	of	projectors,	viewers,	or	electronic	equipment.	This	element	may	be	a	filmstrip,	slides,	a	film,	a	videotape,	a	videodisc,	or	a	CD-I (interactive	compact	disc).

A motion-picture element	is	an	audiovisual	element	that	consists	of	a	series	of
related images that, when shown in succession, impart an impression of motion.
This	element	may	be	in	the	form	of	film,	videotape,	videodisk,	or	a	CD-I.

A sound-recording element is a series of recorded sounds. Sounds accompanying	an	audiovisual	or	motion	picture	element	are	not	defined	in	the	copyright law as a “sound recording.”

How Copyright Is Secured

Statutory copyright protection begins automatically when a work is created in
a fixed form such as a writing or recording. The Copyright Office, an office of
public record, registers claims to copyright and issues certificates of registration; it

2  55.1013

--- PAGE BREAK ---

does not “grant” or “issue” copyrights. See Circular 1, Copyright
Basics, for the benefits of registration.

Mailing Addresses for Applications Filed on Paper and for
Hard-copy Deposits

Copyright Registration for Multimedia Works ·  2

Registration Procedures

An application for copyright registration contains three
essential elements: a completed application form, a nonrefundable filing fee*, and a nonreturnable deposit, that is, a
copy or copies of the work being registered and “deposited”
with the Copyright Office.

Below are two options for registering your copyright,
beginning	with	the	fastest	and	most	cost-effective	method.

*note: Copyright Office fees are subject to change. For current
fees, check the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov,

write the Copyright Office, or call (202) 707-3000.

Option 1: Online Registration
Online registration through the electronic Copyright Office
(eCO)	is	the	preferred	way	to	register	basic	claims	for	literary
works;	visual	arts	works;	performing	arts	works,	including
motion	pictures;	sound	recordings;	and	serials.	Advantages
of online filing include:

•	 a	lower	filing	fee

•	 fastest	processing	time

•	 online	status	tracking

•	 secure	payment	by	credit	or	debit	card,	electronic	check,

or Copyright Office deposit account

•	 the	ability	to	upload	certain	categories	of	deposits	directly

into eCO as electronic files

note: You can still register using eCO and save money even if

you will submit a hard-copy deposit. The system will prompt

you to specify whether you intend to submit an electronic or a

hard-copy deposit, and it will provide instructions accordingly.

Hard-copy deposits are required for all published works.

To access eCO, go to the Copyright Office website at www.

copyright.gov and click on electronic Copyright Office.

Option 2: Registration with Paper Forms
Paper	versions	of	registration	forms	and	Form	CON (continuation	sheet	for	paper	applications)	are	available	on	the
Copyright Office website, or staff will send them to you by
postal	mail	upon	request.	Remember	that	online	registration
through eCO	(see	above)	can	be	used	for	musical	compositions.

U.S. Copyright Office

Single Unit Registration

All copyrightable elements of a multimedia kit may generally
be registered with one	application,	deposit,	and	fee,	provided:
1)	they	are	not	published,	or	if	published,	are	published
together	as	a	single	unit;	and	2)	the	copyright	claimant	is	the
same	for	each	element.	A	multimedia	kit	does	not	qualify	for
the “single application” that is in use on an interim basis to
provide	an	additional	option	for	individual	authors	or	claimants registering one work online that is not a work made for
hire.

Separate	registrations	for	individual	elements	may	be	made
by submitting a separate application and filing fee for each. A
separate	registration	is	required	for	any	element	of	a	multimedia kit that is published separately or claimed by someone
other than the copyright claimant for the other elements.

note: The elements that you wish to register must be present and

appear in the deposit. You may not register elements that are

not protected by copyright, such as concepts, ideas, or methods.

Deposit Requirements

The application must be accompanied by a deposit of the
work	to	be	registered.	The	deposit	requirement	varies
according to the type of work being registered, and whether
the work is published or unpublished. Deposited copies or
phonorecords will not be returned.

Unpublished Works
Deposit one complete multimedia kit, containing all elements	covered	by	the	registration.	(All	elements	should	bear
the title of the work. If the work contains color, the copy sent
as	a	deposit	should	be	in	color.)

Published Works  (See below for the definition of publication.)
For a multimedia kit first published in the United States,
deposit one “complete copy” of the best published edition.
A “complete copy” includes all copyrightable elements in the
unit of publication. See Circular 7b, Best Edition, for information on the best edition criteria.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Either one complete copy of the work as first published
or one complete copy of the best edition of the work is the
required	deposit	for	works	first	published	only	in	a	country
outside the United States.

Works Containing a Motion-Picture Element
If	the	multimedia	kit	contains	a	motion-picture	element,
deposit a description of the motion picture in addition to
the	normal	deposit	requirements.	The	Library	of	Congress
prefers the most detailed description possible, such as a
shooting script, but will accept a synopsis or other general description. See Circular 45, Copyright Registration for
Motion Pictures.

Works Containing an Element Fixed or Published
in Machine-Readable Copies
When the multimedia kit contains authorship that is fixed or
published	only	in	machine-readable	form,	such	as	a	computer
tape or disc, or a semiconductor chip, deposit the appropriate
identifying	material	for	the	machine-readable	copy.

Pictorial Images  ·  If	the	machine-readable	copy	produces
a	series	of	pictorial	images	(such	as	a	videogame	or	instructional	work),	deposit	the	following	material	for	this	kind	of
audiovisual	work:

1  A written synopsis or outline of the content of the audio-

visual	work;	and

2	 A	reproduction	of	the	audiovisual	elements,	in	the	form	of:

a	 A	videotape,	depicting	representative	portions	of	the

copyrightable content, or

b  A series of photographs or drawings depicting repre-

sentative	portions	of	the	work;	and

3  The container and any instructional guide, if either contains authorship in which copyright is being claimed.

note: If the pictorial images exist in color, they should be

reproduced in color. If the work is published with a copyright

notice, the notice and its position on the work must be clearly

shown on the identifying material.

Textual Images  ·  If	the	machine-readable	copy	produces
only	a	series	of	textual	images,	deposit	one	copy	in	visually
perceptible	form	of	the	first	and	last	25	pages	or	the	equivalent	and	five	or	more	pages	of	the	remainder,	including	the
copyright notice, if any.

Musical Compositions  ·  If	the	machine-readable	copy	produces a musical composition, deposit a notated transcription
or	recording	(audiotape	or	audiodisc)	of	the	entire	work.

Copyright Registration for Multimedia Works ·  3

Sound Recordings  ·  If	the	machine-readable	copy	produces
a sound recording, deposit a recording of the entire work on
an audiotape or audiodisc.

Computer Programs  ·  If	the	machine-readable	copy	contains a computer program, deposit the first and last 25 pages
of the source code printout. See Circular 61, Copyright Registration for Computer Programs, for further information.

note: Regardless of the application form used, the application

may include a claim in all accompanying authorship.

Publication

Under the 1976 Copyright Act, publication is the distribution
of copies or phonorecords of a work to the public by sale or
other transfer of ownership, or by rental, lease, or lending.
The offering to distribute copies or phonorecords to a group
of persons for purposes of further distribution, public performance, or public display constitutes publication.

The following acts do not constitute publication: performing or displaying the work, preparing copies or phonorecords for publication, or sending the work to the Copyright Office for registration.

The	definition	of	publication	as	stated	in	the	previous	two

paragraphs applies only to works published under the copyright law that took effect January 1, 1978. For information
about works published prior to that date, call or write the
Copyright Office.

Notice of Copyright

Before March 1, 1989, the use of copyright notice was mandatory on all published works, and any work first published
before	that	date	should	have	carried	a	notice.	For	works	first
published on and after March 1, 1989, use of the copyright
notice is optional. For more information about copyright
notice, see Circular 3, Copyright Notice.

Effective Date of Registration

When the Copyright Office issues a registration certificate,
it	assigns	as	the	effective	date	of	registration	the	date	it
received	all	required	elements—an	application,	a	nonrefundable	filing	fee,	and	a	nonreturnable	deposit—in	acceptable
form, regardless of how long it took to process the application	and	mail	the	certificate.	You	do	not	have	to	receive	your

--- PAGE BREAK ---

certificate before you publish or produce your work, nor
do you need permission from the Copyright Office to place
a	copyright	notice	on	your	work.	However,	the	Copyright
Office	must	have	acted	on	your	application	before	you	can
file a suit for copyright infringement, and certain remedies,
such	as	statutory	damages	and	attorney’s	fees,	are	available
only	for	acts	of	infringement	that	occurred	after	the	effective
date of registration. If a published work was infringed before
the	effective	date	of	registration,	those	remedies	may	also	be
available	if	the	effective	date	of	registration	is	no	later	than
three months after the first publication of the work.

Requests	to	have	certificates	available	for	pickup	in	the

Copyright	Office	or	to	have	certificates	sent	by	Federal
Express	or	another	mail	service	cannot	be	honored.	If	you
want	to	know	the	date	that	the	Copyright	Office	receives
your	paper	application	or	hard-copy	deposit,	send	it	by	registered	or	certified	mail	and	request	a	return	receipt.

For Further Information

By Internet
Circulars, announcements, regulations, other related materials,	and	all	copyright	application	forms	are	available	on	the

Copyright Registration for Multimedia Works ·  4

Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov. To send an
email communication, click on Contact Us at the bottom of
the homepage.

By telephone
For general information about copyright, call the Copyright
Public	Information	Office	at	(202)	707-3000	or	call	1-877-
476-0778	(toll	free).	Staff	members	are	on	duty	from	8:30 am
to 5:00 pm, eastern time, Monday through Friday, except
federal	holidays.	Recorded	information	is	available	24	hours
a day. Or, if you know which application forms and circulars
you	want,	call	the	Forms	and	Publications	Hotline	at	(202)
707-9100,	and	leave	a	recorded	message.

By regular mail
Write to:

Copyright Office–COPUBS

U. S. Copyright Office

·  Library of Congress

·  101 Independence Avenue SE

·  Washington, DC 20559

·  www.copyright.gov

circular 55  reviewed: 10 ⁄ 2013  Printed on recycled paper

u.s. government printing office: 2013-xxx-xxx ⁄ xx,xxx
