Responding to a
Mandatory Deposit Notice
by Registering Your Work

7C

If you receive a written notice from

the Copyright Office for a work

subject to mandatory deposit, you

must respond within three months

by submitting the required number

of copies or by registering your

work with the Copyright Office.

This circular provides instructions

when you respond to a notice by

registering your work. It covers

•  Packaging an electronic shipping

slip with a physical deposit when

you register online

•  Bundling a deposit and filing fee

All works under copyright protection that are published
in the United States are subject to the “mandatory deposit”
provision of the copyright law. As a general rule, it requires
that two copies of the “best edition” of a copyrightable work
published in the United States be sent to the Copyright Office
within three months of publication. The Office can issue a
written demand for copies or phonorecords for the Library
of Congress at any time after a work has been published in
the United States. When you receive such a demand notice,
you must respond within three months by submitting the
required number of copies or by registering your work with
the Copyright Office. This circular covers the process for
responding to a written notice by registering your work.

For more information about mandatory deposit, see Man-

datory Deposit of Copies or Phonorecords for the Library of
Congress (Circular 7D) or contact the Copyright Acquisitions
Division at cad@copyright.gov or (202) 707-7125.1

with a paper application

Registering Online

1.  Print the deposit copy shipping slip produced by the

online registration system.

2.  Attach the mandatory deposit notice and the ship-

ping slip directly to the deposits. If you are submitting
multiple applications, match the shipping slips with
the appropriate deposits. Place the mandatory deposit
notice on top of the submission so that it is visible
when the package is opened.

3.  Send all items in a single package to the address on the

shipping slip.

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Registering Using a Paper Application

1.  Bundle together all deposit copies for a single work.

2.  Attach the mandatory deposit notice, the completed application form, and the nonrefund-

able filing fee directly to the deposits for each work you submit. Place the mandatory deposit
notice on top so that it is visible when the package is opened.

3.  Send all of these items in a single package to

Copyright Office—CAD/AD
101 Independence Avenue SE
Washington, DC 20559-6601

The Copyright Acquisitions Division will forward your submission to the Registration Program

once it is received.

Mail Security Measures

To avoid damage to your deposit from mail security measures in effect on Capitol Hill, where the
Copyright Office is located, package microform deposits and electronic media such as CDs and
DVDs in boxes weighing no more than twenty pounds each rather than in envelopes. CDs and
DVDs packaged in standard-size jewel cases are more likely to survive security measures, which
include an irradiation process, than those packaged in slim-line cases.

note: We recommend that you send your package using a traceable mail method. This will allow us
to confirm delivery of the shipment.

note
1. This circular is intended as an overview of registering a work with the Copyright Office after
receiving a mandatory deposit notice. The authoritative source for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United States Code. Copyright Office regulations are codified in
Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Copyright Office practices and procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the Compendium are available on the Copyright Office
website at www.copyright.gov.

Responding to a Mandatory Deposit Notice by Registering Your Work

--- PAGE BREAK ---

For Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time,
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.

By Regular Mail

Write to

U.S. Copyright Office
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

CIRCULAR 7C  REVISED: 03/2021

PRINT: 00/0000 — 0,000

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.gov
