Works Not Protected
by Copyright

To be copyrightable, a work must

qualify as an original work of

authorship under the copyright law.

This circular highlights different types

of works and subject matter that do

not qualify for copyright protection.

It covers

•

Ideas, methods, and systems

•  Names, titles, and short phrases

•  Typeface, fonts, and lettering

•  Blank forms

•  Familiar symbols and designs

To register a work with the U.S. Copyright Office, you must
identify the copyrightable subject matter forming the basis
of your claim. To be copyrightable, a work must qualify as
an original work of authorship, meaning that it must have
been created independently and contain a sufficient amount
of creativity. Most works meet these conditions. Some works,
however, contain elements that either lack the required creativity or are placed outside the bounds of copyright by the law.
This circular highlights different types of noncopyrightable
subject matter. For more information, see chapter 300, section
313.3, of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices.1

Ideas, Methods, and Systems

Copyright law expressly excludes copyright protection for
“any idea, procedure, process, system, method of operation,
concept, principle, or discovery, regardless of the form in
which it is described, explained, illustrated, or embodied.”
The Office may, however, register a literary, graphic, or artistic description, explanation, or illustration of an idea, procedure, process, system, or method of operation, provided that
the work contains a sufficient amount of original authorship.
However, copyright protection will extend only to the original expression in that work and not to the underlying idea,
methods, or systems described or explained.

Inventions

You can register a technical drawing or a written description
of an invention when the drawing or description contains a
sufficient amount of authorship. However, the registration
extends only to the original expression contained in the
drawing or description and does not apply to the underlying
invention. Inventions meeting certain requirements may be
patentable. For information about patent laws, visit the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office website or call 1-800-786-9199.

wcopyright.govCIRCULAR

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Example:

An author writes a book explaining a new system for food processing. The copyright in the
book prevents others from copying or distributing the text and illustrations describing the
author’s system as expressed in the book, but it does not give the author the right to prevent
others from employing the system or from using any procedures, processes, or methods
described in the book.

Recipes

A recipe is a statement of the ingredients and procedure required for making a dish of food. A mere
listing of ingredients or contents, or a simple set of directions, is uncopyrightable. As a result, the
Office cannot register recipes consisting of a set of ingredients and a process for preparing a dish. In
contrast, a recipe that creatively explains or depicts how or why to perform a particular activity may
be copyrightable. A registration for a recipe may cover the written description or explanation of a
process that appears in the work, as well as any photographs or illustrations that are owned by the
applicant. However, the registration will not cover the list of ingredients that appear in each recipe,
the underlying process for making the dish, or the resulting dish itself. The registration will also not
cover the activities described in the work that are procedures, processes, or methods of operation,
which are not subject to copyright protection.

Examples:

Jules Kinder submits an application to register a cookbook, Pie in the Sky. In the “Author Created” field of the application, Kinder asserts a claim in “text, photographs, and compilation
of ingredients.” Each recipe contains a list of ingredients, instructions for making a pie, and a
photograph of the finished product. The claim in a “compilation of ingredients” will not be
accepted because there is no copyrightable authorship in a mere listing of ingredients. Since
this claim is not acceptable, the Office may communicate with Jules Kinder to limit the extent
of the registration to the text and photographs only.

Paulina Neumann submits an application to register a recipe for caesar salad dressing. In the
“Author Created” field, Neumann asserts a claim in “text.” The work consists of a list of eleven
ingredients with the following instructions: “(1) puree anchovies, garlic, Dijon, egg yolks; (2)
drizzle oil in gradually to emulsify; (3) add lemon, parmesan cheese, salt, pepper, Worcestershire and tabasco sauce.” The Office will refuse registration for this work, because the list of
ingredients is uncopyrightable, and the instructional text contains an insufficient amount of
creative authorship.

Names, Titles, Short Phrases

Words and short phrases, such as names, titles, and slogans, are uncopyrightable because they contain
an insufficient amount of authorship. The Office will not register individual words or brief combinations of words, even if the word or short phrase is novel, distinctive, or lends itself to a play on words.
Examples of names, titles, or short phrases that do not contain a sufficient amount of creativity

to support a claim in copyright include

--- PAGE BREAK ---

•  The name of an individual (including pseudonyms, pen names, or stage names)

•  The title or subtitle of a work, such as a book, a song, or a pictorial, graphic, or sculptural work

•  The name of a business or organization

•  The name of a band or performing group

•  The name of a product or service

•  A domain name or URL

•  The name of a character

•  Catchwords or catchphrases

•  Mottos, slogans, or other short expressions

Under certain circumstances, names, titles, or short phrases may be protectable under federal or

state trademark laws. For information about trademark laws, visit the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office website or call 1-800-786-9199.

Typeface, Fonts, and Lettering

Copyright law does not protect typeface or mere variations of typographical ornamentation or lettering. A typeface is a set of letters, numbers, or other characters with repeating design elements that
is intended to be used in composing text or other combinations of characters, including calligraphy.
Generally, typeface, fonts, and lettering are building blocks of expression that are used to create
works of authorship. The Office cannot register a claim to copyright in typeface or mere variations
of typographic ornamentation or lettering, regardless of whether the typeface is commonly used
or unique. There are some very limited cases where the Office may register some types of typeface,
typefont, lettering, or calligraphy. For more information, see chapter 900, section 906.4 of the
Compendium. To register copyrightable content, you should describe the surface decoration or other
ornamentation and should explain how it is separable from the typeface characters.

Layout and Design

As a general rule, the Office will not accept a claim to copyright in “format” or “layout.” The general layout or format of a book, page, book cover, slide presentation, web page, poster, or form is
uncopyrightable because it is a template for expression. Copyright protection may be available for the
selection, coordination, or arrangement of the specific content that is selected and arranged in a sufficiently creative manner. The claim, however, would be limited to the selection and arrangement of that
specific content, not to the selection and arrangement of any content in that particular manner.

Blank Forms

Blank forms typically contain empty fields or lined spaces as well as words or short phrases that
identify the content that should be recorded in each field or space. Blank forms that are designed for
recording information and do not themselves convey information are uncopyrightable.

Similarly, the ideas or principles behind a blank form, the systems or methods implemented by a
form, or the form’s functional layout are not protected by copyright. A blank form may incorporate

--- PAGE BREAK ---

images or text that is sufficiently creative to be protected by copyright. For example, bank checks
may be registered if they contain pictorial decoration that is sufficiently creative. Contracts, insurance policies, and other documents with “fill-in” spaces may also be registered if there is sufficient
literary authorship that is not standard or functional. In all cases, the registration covers only the
original textual or pictorial expression that the author contributed to the work, but does not cover
the blank form or other uncopyrightable elements that the form may contain.

Examples of blank forms include

•  Time cards

•  Graph paper

•  Account books

•  Diaries

•  Bank checks

•  Scorecards

•  Address books

•  Report forms

•  Order forms

•  Date books and schedulers

Familiar Symbols and Designs

Familiar symbols and designs, or a simple combination of a few familiar symbols or designs, are
uncopyrightable and cannot be registered with the Office. However, a work of authorship that
incorporates one or more familiar symbols or designs into a larger design may be registered if the
work as a whole contains a sufficient amount of creative expression.

Examples of familiar symbols and designs include but are not limited to

•  Letters, punctuation, or symbols on a keyboard

•  Abbreviations

•  Musical notation

•  Numbers and mathematical and currency symbols

•  Arrows and other directional or navigational symbols

•  Common symbols and shapes, such as a spade, club, heart, diamond, star, yin yang, or

fleur de lys

•  Common patterns, such as standard chevron, polka dot, checkerboard, or houndstooth

•  Well-known and commonly used symbols that contain a minimal amount of expression or
are in the public domain, such as the peace symbol, gender symbols, or simple emoticons

•  Industry designs, such as the caduceus, barber pole, food labeling symbols, or hazard

warning symbols

•  Familiar religious symbols

•  Common architecture moldings

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Registration of Works with Copyrightable and Uncopyrightable Subject Matter

When completing an application for a work with a significant amount of uncopyrightable subject
matter, you should focus your claim specifically on the copyrightable subject matter. When completing the “Author Created” field in the online application, use words identifying copyrightable subject
matter such as “text,” “photograph,” or “drawing.” Avoid words referring to material that is not
subject to copyright protection, such as “idea,” “device,” “process,” “format,” or “layout.” Also, avoid
using vague language, such as “design” or “entire work.”

For more information on general registration procedures, see Copyright Registration (Circular 2).

note
1. This circular is intended as an overview of works not protected by copyright. The authoritative
source for U.S. copyright law is the Copyright Act, codified in Title 17 of the United States Code. Copyright Office regulations are codified in Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Copyright Office
practices and procedures are summarized in the third edition of the Compendium of U.S. Copyright
Office Practices, cited as the Compendium. The copyright law, regulations, and the Compendium are
available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

For Further Information

By Internet

The copyright law, the Compendium, electronic registration, application forms, regulations,
and related materials are available on the Copyright Office website at www.copyright.gov.

By Email

To send an email inquiry, click the Contact Us link on the Copyright Office website.

By Telephone

For general information, call the Copyright Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000 or
1-877-476-0778 (toll free). Staff members are on duty from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm, eastern time,
Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. To request application forms or circulars by
postal mail, call (202) 707-9100 or 1-877-476-0778 and leave a recorded message.

By Regular Mail

Write to

Library of Congress
U.S. Copyright Office
Outreach and Education Section
101 Independence Avenue, SE #6304
Washington, DC 20559-6304

1   U. S. Copyright Office · Library of Congress · 101 Independence Avenue SE · Washington, DC 20559 · copyright.govCIRCULAR 33 REVISED: 03 /2021 PRINT: 00 /0000 — 0,000
