ALLEN BARGFREDE

IN
THE

MUSIC
LAW
DIGITAL
 AGE

COPYRIGHT ESSENTIALS
FOR TODAY’S MUSIC BUSINESS

3 R D   E D I T I O N

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ALLEN BARGFREDE

IN
THE

MUSIC
LAW
DIGITAL
 AGE

COPYRIGHT ESSENTIALS
FOR TODAY’S MUSIC BUSINESS

3 R D   E D I T I O N

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Berklee Press

Editor in Chief: Jonathan Feist
Senior Vice President of Online Learning and Continuing Education/CEO of Berklee Online: Debbie Cavalier
Vice President of Enrollment Marketing and Management: Mike King
Dean of Online and Continuing Education: Carin Nuernberg
Editorial Assistant: Brittany McCorriston
Assistants for the First Edition: Mina Cho, Yousun Choi, Martin Fowler, Emily Goldstein, Claudia Obser
Assistants for the Second Edition: Emily Jones, Eloise Kelsey
Cover Designer: Kathy Kikkert

ISBN: 978-0-87639-173-0

1140 Boylston Street
Boston, MA 02215-3693  USA
(617) 747-2146

Visit Berklee Press Online at
www.berkleepress.com

Study music online at
online.berklee.edu

Visit Hal Leonard Online
www.halleonard.com

Berklee Press, a publishing activity of Berklee College of Music, is a not-for-profit educational publisher.
Available proceeds from the sales of our products are contributed to the scholarship funds of the college.

Copyright © 2009, 2017, 2021 Berklee Press
All Rights Reserved

No part of this publication may be reproduced in any form or by
any means without the prior written permission of the Publisher.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

CO-PUBLISHING AGREEMENT

[This agreement is a draft, sample agreement and should not be used without a full review
for your particular circumstances. Author makes no warranties with respect to the
applicability of this model agreement to any particular situation.]

This  co-publishing  agreement  ("Agreement")  is  entered  into  this  XXst  day  of
[MONTH],  20XX,  between  Writer  ("Writer")  and  Publisher  Music,  Inc.  ("Publisher")
with respect to an exclusive co-publishing agreement between Writer and Publisher. The
effectiveness of this Agreement shall not be affected by a change of name of the Writer.

1.   TERM.

(a) The initial term ("Initial Term") of this Agreement shall commence on the date
hereof and shall continue for an Initial Contract Period ending thirty-six (36)
months from the date of this Agreement.

(b) This  Agreement  shall  automatically  renew  for  two  (2)  twelve  (12)  month
periods  (“Option  Periods”)  automatically  unless  Publisher  gives  written
notice  of  termination  to  Writer  not  later  than  thirty  (30)  days  prior  to  the
expiration of the Initial Term or the then current Option Period, as applicable,
subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  in  this Agreement.  The  Initial  Term  and
Option Periods, if applicable, are collectively referred to as the “Term.”

2.   TERRITORY.  The World ("Territory").

3.  ADVANCES.

(a) Initial Advance: Publisher agrees to pay Writer the amount of XX Thousand
Dollars ($XX,000.00) (“Initial Advance”) upon execution of this Agreement.

(b) Monthly  Installments:  Additionally,  Publisher  shall  provide  the  Writer  XX
Thousand  Dollars  ($X,000.00)  per  month  (“Monthly Advances”)  during  the
Term.  The Monthly Advances will be paid out within the first seven (7) days
of  each  month.  The  Monthly  Advance  will  carry  a  minimum  delivery
requirement of one Song per month unless otherwise agreed to by Writer and
Publisher. If Writer delivers more than three (3) Songs in a quarter, the extra
Songs  will  carry  over  to  the  next  quarter. A  “Song”  shall  be  defined  as  any
substantially  complete,  commercially  satisfactory  composition,  at  least  three
minutes  in  length,  in  which  Writer  will  be  credited  at  least  seventy-five
percent (75%) of the Writer’s share.   The advances, which include the Initial
Advance  and  the  Monthly  Advances  and  the  Legal  Fees  (see  Section  3.c),
shall  be  repaid  from  Writer’s  Net  Income,  starting  at  first  dollar  until  fully
recouped.
  After  the  first  eighteen  (18)  months  of  this  Agreement,  any
unrecouped  Advance  shall  be  recoupable  from  only  one-half  (½)  of  the

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Writer’s Net Income.  After the first year of this Agreement, Writer is entitled
to  retain  at  least  one  half  of  Writer’s  Net  Income  despite  any  remaining
unrecouped Advance.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary Writer does
not recoup the Advance from Writer’s Net Income, Writer is not responsible to
return any unrecouped part of the advance.

(c) Options: Publisher agrees to pay Writer additional advances of $20,000 upon
the commencement of each additional option period.   These advances will be
entirely recoupable from all of the Writer’s Net Income.

(d) Legal Fees: Publisher also agrees to pay to Writer’s attorney, [ATTORNEY], a
fee  in  the  amount  of  XX  Dollars  upon  execution  of  this Agreement.    Such
attorney’s fee will also be recoupable from Net Income.

4.   SCOPE OF AGREEMENT.

(a) Subject  to  those  requirements  and/or  restrictions  set  forth  herein,  Writer
hereby  grants,  sells  and  conveys  to  Publisher  fifty  percent  (50%)  of  the
Publisher’s  share  of  royalties,  as  such  term  is  commonly  referred  to  in  the
music industry, and fifty percent (50%) of Writers' total copyright interest in
all songs written or co-written by Writer prior to and during the Term, subject
to  the  provisions  in  paragraph  4(b)  below,  in  the  case  of  co-written
compositions  (collectively  referred  to  below  as  "Subject  Compositions"  or
"SC[s]"), and Publisher shall have the exclusive rights to administration of the
SCs for the life of copyright in each instance in the Territory.

(b) In the case of co-written compositions, such co-ownership and administration
shall only extend to Writer’s fractional interest, calculated by multiplying one
hundred percent (100%) by a fraction, the numerator of which is one (1) and
the  denominator  of  which  is  the  total  number  of  contributing  writers  in  the
composition,  unless  the  ownership  of  such  composition  is  delineated  in  a
different amount by the contributing writers in writing.

(c) Publisher and Publisher's foreign subsidiaries, affiliates and licensees have the
fullest possible rights to administer and exploit the SCs, to print, publish, sell,
dramatize, use and license any and all uses of the SCs, to execute in its own
name any and all licenses and agreements whatsoever affecting or respecting
the  SCs,  including  but  not  limited  to  licenses  for  mechanical  reproduction,
public  performance,  dramatic  uses,  synchronization  uses  and  subpublication,
and  to  assign  or  license  such  rights  to  others,  to  utilize  Writers'  name  and
likeness  in  connection  therewith  and  to  execute  PA  forms  (and  other  routine
copyright documents) in Writers' names and on Writers' behalf as attorney-infact  (which  appointment  is  coupled  with  an  interest  and  is  therefore
irrevocable), solely with respect to the SCs.  This statement of exclusive rights

--- PAGE BREAK ---

is only in clarification and amplification of the rights of Publisher and not in
limitation thereof.

5.    COLLECTION  OF  INCOME.    Publisher  is  entitled  to  receive  and  collect
and shall receive and collect all gross receipts derived from the SCs. "Gross
Receipts"  is  defined  as  any  and  all  revenue,  income  and  sums  derived  and
actually  received  by  Publisher  in  the  United  States  (after  deduction  of  any
collection or other fees charged by The Harry Fox Agency, Inc., or any other
such collection agent which may be used by Publisher anywhere in the United
States  and  Canada,  and  after  deduction  of  any  collection  fee  or  share  of
royalties  charged  by  any  collection  agent  or  subpublisher  used  by  Publisher
outside  the  United  States  and  Canada)  from  the  exploitation  of  the  SCs,
including  without  limitation,  mechanical  royalties,  synchronization  fees,
dramatic  use  fees,  printing  income  and  the  publisher's  share  of  public
performance  fees.
  In  the  event  Publisher  or  Publisher's  subsidiaries  or
affiliates  in  the  United  States  or  Canada  shall  print  and  sell  any  printed
editions of any of the Compositions, Gross Receipts with respect thereto, for
the  purposes  of  this Agreement,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  royalty  on  the  net
paid  sales  of  each  printed  edition,  which  royalty  shall  be  equal  to  the  then
current royalty generally being paid by print licensees in the United States to
unrelated music publishers.

6.    ROYALTIES/  NET  INCOME  SHARE.    Publisher  shall  pay  to  Writer
publishing  royalties  of  fifty  percent  (50%)  of  the  so-called  Publisher’s  share
of Net Income received by Publisher and derived by Publisher from the SCs,
and  shall  retain  the  remaining  net  income  for  Publisher's  own  account.    In
addition Publisher shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the Net Income of
the  so-called  Writer’s  share  of  songwriter  royalties  with  respect  to  monies
received  by  Publisher  from  Publisher's  exploitations  of  SCs  (except  for
royalties  with  respect  to  printed  editions).  Publisher’s  requirement  to  make
payment of royalties shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

(a) "Net Income" is defined as the Gross Receipts less the following:

(i)   An  administration  fee  of  ten  percent  (10%)  of  the  gross  receipts,
which Company shall retain for Company's own account;

(ii) Royalties which shall be paid by Publisher to any other writers of SCs
pursuant to any songwriter's agreements between Writers and any such
other writers (true copies of which latter agreements shall be submitted
by Writers to Publisher promptly upon execution thereof).

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(iii)  Out-of-pocket  administrative  and  exploitation  expenses  of  Publisher
with  respect  to  the  SCs  including,  without  limitation,  copyright
registration  fees,  advertising  and  promotion  expenses  directly  related
to  the  SCs,  the  costs  of  transcribing  for  lead  sheets,  and  the  costs  of
producing demonstration records.

(iv) Attorneys' fees, if any, actually paid by Publisher for any agreements
(other  than  the  within Agreement)  affecting  solely  the  SCs  or  actual
and reasonable out-of pocket audit and litigation collection expenses.

7.

COLLECTION OF PERFORMANCE ROYALTIES.

(a) Public  performing  rights  in  the  SCs,  to  the  extent  permitted  by  law,  shall  be
assigned to and licensed by the performing rights society to which both parties
belong.   Said society shall be and is hereby authorized to collect and receive
all monies earned from the public performance of the SCs in the United States
and  Canada  and  shall  be  and  is  hereby  authorized  to  collect  and  receive  all
monies  earned  from  the  public  performance  of  the  SCs  in  the  United  States
and Canada and shall be and is hereby directed to pay directly to Publisher the
entire  amount  allocated  by  said  society  as  the  publisher's  share  of  public
performance fees for the SCs for the United States and Canada.   All writer’s
share of public performances fees for the SCs will be paid directly to Writer
by  such  society  and  shall  not  be  considered  to  be  part  of  Net  Income  under
this Agreement.

(b) If any musical composition acquired in whole or in part by Writer during the
term hereof or by Publisher under the provisions or the Agreement was written
or  co-written  by  a  member  of  a  performing  rights  society  other  than  the
society  to  which  the  parties  hereto  belong,  said  musical  composition  or  the
appropriate share thereof shall be a Composition hereunder, co-owned by an
affiliate  of  Writer  that  shall  be  a  member  of  said  other  society,  and
administered by Publisher's affiliate.

(c) Annexed hereto is the form of letter of direction and assignment from Writer
to  ASCAP,  which  shall  effectuate  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph.    Writer
shall  sign  and  deliver  to  Publisher  copies  of  said  letter  simultaneously
herewith,  and  in  default  thereof  Publisher  is  hereby  authorized  and
empowered by Writer to sign copies of this letter for and on behalf of Writers
and submit same to the appropriate society.

8.   COLLECTION  OF  MECHANICAL  ROYALTIES.  Mechanical  royalties
for the SCs for the United States and Canada may be collectible by The Harry

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Fox  Agency,  Inc.,  the  Mechanical  Licensing  Collective,  or  any  other
collection agent who may be designated by Publisher, provided, however, that
Publisher  shall  issue  the  mechanical  licenses  directly  at  the  then  current
statutory  rate  and  collect  mechanical  royalties  directly  therefrom,  in  which
case there shall be no collection fee as referred to in clause 5 above.

9.

  SUBPUBLISHING  AGREEMENTS.  Publisher  may  enter  into
subpublishing  or  collection  agreements  with,  and  license  or  assign  this
Agreement and any of its rights hereunder and delegate any of its obligations
hereunder to, any persons, firms or corporations in the Territory. If Publisher
is  or  shall  be  a  party  to  any  subpublishing,  collection  or  administration
agreement  for  any  country  of  the  world  with  a  subsidiary  or  affiliate,  such
agreement shall be deemed to be an agreement with an unrelated third party
and, for the purposes of this Agreement, such agreement shall be deemed to be
in  good  faith  and  follow  reasonable  industry  standards.    For  the  sake  of
accounting,  both  parties  agree  that  Net  Income  in  relation  to  any  subpublishing income shall be calculated only by those funds actually received by
Publisher in the United States.

10. ACCOUNTING.   Statements as to royalties payable hereunder shall be sent
by Publisher to Writer on or before the thirty-first day of August of the semiannual period ending the preceding June 30, and on or before the 1st day of
March  for  the  semi-annual  period  ending  the  preceding  December  31st,
together with payment of accrued royalties, if any, earned by Writer hereunder
during  such  semi-annual  period,  less  all  Expenses  and  charges  under  this
Agreement.

(a) No  royalties  shall  be  payable  to  Writer  by  any  of  Publisher's  licensees  until
payment  therefore  has  been  received  by  Publisher  or  credited  to  Publisher’s
Account.    Royalties  payable  by  any  such  licensees  shall  be  deemed  to  have
occurred  in  the  semi-annual  accounting  period  during  which  such  licensees
shall have rendered to Publisher accounting statements for such sales.

(b) Royalties  received  or  credited  to  Publisher’s  account  outside  of  the  United
States  shall  be  computed  in  the  national  currency  in  which  Publisher  is  paid
by  Publisher's  licensees,  shall  be  credited  to  Writer's  royalty  account
hereunder  at  the  same  rate  of  exchange  as  Publisher  is  paid,  and  shall  be
proportionately  subject  to  any  transfer  or  comparable  taxes  which  may  be
imposed  upon  Publisher's  receipts.    In  the  event  Publisher  shall  not  receive
payment in United States dollars in the United States in respect thereof, such
payment shall not be credited to Writer's royalty account hereunder.

(c) Publisher  shall  keep  full,  complete,  and  accurate  records  with  respect  to  all
amounts  received  and  other  transactions  entered  into  in  connection  with
Writer’s royalties and the SC(s) during the Term of this Agreement and for so

--- PAGE BREAK ---

long thereafter as Publisher receives any gross monies or other consideration
  Such  books  and  records  may  be
to  which  Writer  is  entitled  hereunder.
inspected by Writer, at Writer’s expense, at the location at which they are kept
during  regular  business  hours  by  a  certified  public  accountant  designated  by
the party conducting such inspection after reasonable notice to the other party.
Should  such  an  audit  determine  that  Publisher  has  underpaid  Writer  by  an
amount greater than five percent (5%) of the total royalties due to Writer from
Publisher, Publisher shall bear the costs of the audit.

11. RIGHT TO PROSECUTE CLAIMS. Publisher shall have the sole right but
not  the  obligation  to  prosecute,  defend,  settle,  and  comprise  all  suits  and
actions  respecting  the  SCs,  and  generally  to  do  and  perform  all  things
necessary  concerning  the  same  and  the  copyrights  therein,  to  prevent  and
restrain the infringement of copyrights or other rights with respect to the SCs.
In  the  event  of  the  recovery  by  Publisher  of  any  monies  as  a  result  of  a
judgment  or  settlement,  such  monies  shall  be  divided  between  Writer  and
Publisher  in  the  same  shares  as  provided  in  clause  5  above,  after  first
deducting the expenses of obtaining said monies, including counsel fees, and
paying  any  necessary  share  thereof  to  Composer  or  any  other  writers.
Publisher  shall  have  the  right  to  provide  counsel  for  Writer,  but  at  Writer's
own expense, subject to pre-approval by Writer, to assist in any such matter.
Any judgments against Publisher and any settlements by Publisher of claims
against Writers  respecting  any  of  the  SCs,  together  with  costs  and  expenses,
including counsel fees, shall be covered by the indemnity provisions of Clause
12  hereof,  and  Writers'  indemnity  payment  thereunder  shall  be  paid  to
Publisher promptly upon demand and may also be recouped by Publisher from
any and all sums that may become due to Writers hereunder.

12.  WARRANTIES and REPRESENTATIONS.

(a) Writer  hereby  warrants  and  represents  that  it  has  the  right  to  enter  into  this
Agreement  and  to  grant  to  Publisher  any  rights  granted  herein,  and  that  the
exercise  by  Publisher  of  any  and  all  rights  with  respect  to  the  SCs  will  not
violate  or  infringe  upon  any  common  law  or  statutory  rights  of  any  person,
firm  or  corporation,  including  without  limitation,  contractual  rights,
copyrights and rights of privacy.   The rights granted herein are free and clear
of  any  claims,  demands,  liens,  or  encumbrances.    Writer  acknowledges  that
Publisher  has  the  right  to  administer  and  publish  compositions  other  than
Writer's SC.

(i)

The  rights  of  the  parties  hereto  in  and  to  each  Composition  shall
extend for the full term of the copyright of said Composition and
of  any  derivative  copyrights  therein  the  United  States  of America
and  throughout  the  rest  of  world  and  for  the  terms  of  any  and  all

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(ii)

renewals or extensions thereof in the United States of America and
throughout the rest of the Territory.
The  parties  hereto  shall  execute  any  further  documents  including
without  limitation,  assignments  of  copyrights,  and  do  all  acts
necessary  to  fully  effectuate  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this
Agreement.

13.  INDEMNIFICATION.  Both  Publisher  and  Writer  agree  to  and  do  hereby
indemnify, save and hold each other harmless of and from any and all loss and
damage (including reasonable attorney's fees) arising out of or connected with
any claim by any one or more third parties or any act by each other which is
inconsistent  with  any  of  the  warranties,  representations,  and/or  agreements
made  by  each  party  herein,  and  agrees  to  reimburse  each  other  on  written
demand  for  any  reasonable  payment  made  by  either  party  at  any  time  with
respect  to  any  liability  or  claim  to  which  the  foregoing  indemnity  applies.
Pending  the  determination  of  any  claim  involving  such  alleged  breach  or
failure,  Publisher  may  withhold  sums  due  Writer  hereunder  in  an  amount
consistent with such claim.

14.  CURE  OF  BREACH.    Neither  party  will  be  deemed  in  breach  unless  the
other party gives notice and the notified party fails to cure within thirty (30)
days  after  receiving  notice  (fifteen  (15)  days,  in  the  case  of  a  payment  of
money);  provided,  that  if  the  alleged  breach  does  not  involve  a  payment  of
money and is of such a nature that it cannot be completely cured within thirty
(30) days, the notified party will not be deemed to be in breach if the notified
party  commences  the  curing  of  the  alleged  breach  within  such  thirty  day
period and proceeds to complete the curing thereof with due diligence within a
reasonable time thereafter.   However, either party shall have the right to seek
injunctive relief to prevent a threatened breach of this Agreement by the other
party.    All  payments  required  to  be  made  by  Publisher  hereunder  shall  be
subject  to  any  rights  and/or  remedies  that  may  otherwise  be  available  to
Publisher in the event of a breach of this Agreement on Writer's part not cured
in the manner prescribed above, and to any withholding that may be required
by the rules and regulations of any taxing jurisdiction having authority.

15. NOTICES and CONSENTS.

(a) Notices  shall  be  sent  registered  or  certified  mail  (return  receipt  requested)
with  postage  prepaid,  to Writers  and  to  Publisher  at  the  following  addresses
until written notice of a new address shall be duly given:

To Writer: [ADDRESS]

To Publisher:  [ADDRESS]

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(b) Statements (and payments, if applicable) shall be sent by ordinary mail.
(c) Where  the  consent  or  approval  of  a  party  is  required,  it  shall  not  be
unreasonably withheld (unless expressly provided otherwise herein) and shall
be  deemed  given  unless  the  party  whose  consent  or  approval  has  been
requested  delivers  notice  of  nonconsent  or  disapproval  to  the  other  party
within  fifteen    (15)  days  after  receipt  of  notice  requesting  such  consent  or
disapproval.

16. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding
between the parties, and cannot be changed, modified, or cancelled except by
an instrument signed by the party sought to be bound.

17.  ARBITRATION.  Any  claim  or  dispute  arising  out  of  or  relating  to  this
Agreement or the breach thereof shall first be settled by binding arbitration in
accordance  with  the  rules  and  regulations  of  the  American  Arbitration
Association  governing  three-member  panels.  Both  parties  agree  to  share
equally in the cost of Arbitration and be responsible for their own legal fees.

18.  MISCELLANEOUS.

(a) Nothing  contained  herein  shall  constitute  a  partnership  between  or  a  joint

venture by Publisher and Writer.

(b) If  any  provision  of  this Agreement  shall  be  declared  invalid,  same  shall  not

affect the validity of the remaining provisions hereof.

(c) No  waiver  of  any  provision  of  this  Agreement  or  of  any  default  hereunder
shall affect the waiving party's rights thereafter to enforce such provision or to
exercise any right or remedy in the event of any other default, whether or not
similar.

(d) Both  parties  acknowledge  that  this  Agreement  was  co-authored  jointly,  by
both  parties  to  this  Agreement,  and  each  provided  input  in  creating  the
provisions contained here within.

19. RIGHT  TO  LEGAL  REPRESENTATION.  Writer  represents  and
warrants  that  Writer  has  read  this  Agreement  and  Writer  understands
that  this  is  an  important  legal  document.  Writer  hereby  represents  and
warrants that Writer has been advised of their right to seek independent
legal  counsel  in  connection  with  the  negotiation  and  execution  of  this
Agreement and that Writer has either retained and has been represented
by such legal counsel or has knowingly and voluntarily waived their right
to  such  legal  counsel  and  desires  to  enter  into  this  Agreement  with  the
benefit of independent legal representation.

The effective date of this Agreement shall be the first date written above.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Publisher:

By:__________________________

Writer’s Name:

Signature_____________________

Soc. Sec. # ___________________

Date of Birth: __________________

Address:

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ASSIGNMENT

ASSIGNOR (Writer):

ASSIGNEE (Publisher):

PORTION CONVEYED:
hundred percent (100%) of Administration Rights

An  undivided  fifty  percent  (50%)  of  Copyright,  plus  one

For  valuable  consideration, ASSIGNOR  hereby  assigns,  transfers,  sets  over,  and
conveys  to  ASSIGNEE  an  undivided  fifty  percent  (50%)  interest  in  ASSIGNOR's
copyright interest in the musical compositions listed on the below Schedule A, together
with the exclusive worldwide administration rights in such share in accordance with the
terms  and  conditions  of  the  Co-Publishing Agreement  between  the  parties  of  even  date
herewith.

This  assignment  includes  the  copyrights  and  proprietary  rights  in  said  musical
compositions  and  in  any  and  all  versions  thereof,  and  any  renewals  and  extensions
thereof (whether presently available or subsequently available as the result of intervening
legislation)  in  the  United  States  of  America  and  elsewhere  throughout  the  world,  and
further including any and all causes of action for infringement of the same, past, present,
and  future,  and  all  proceeds  from  the  foregoing  accrued  and  unpaid  and  hereafter
accruing.

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned  has  executed  the  foregoing

Assignment as of the ___________ day of __________________, ________.

_______________________________
Writer

Notary Public:

_______________________________
Writer's Printed Name

--- PAGE BREAK ---

SCHEDULE A
EXISTING COMPOSITIONS
