4  Recordation System

Frequently Asked Questions

    General

   What document types are supported by the Recordation System?

The Recordation System supports all documents pertaining to a copyright under section 205 of title 17. At this time,
however, documents that pertain to more than 10,000 works must be submitted using the paper process. When submitting
your document for recordation, you will be prompted to select a document category on the “Document” tab from the
following list:

•  Affidavit/declaration/certification
•  Assignment
•  Change of address
•  Change of name
•  Counter-notice
•  Court order
•  Exclusive license
•  Mortgage/security agreement
•  Non-exclusive license
•  Will
•  Other

Please use the “Other” selection if your document type is not listed as a selection but is allowed under section 205 of Title 17.
Once you select “Other,” you will be prompted to provide details on the type of document you are trying to record.

    Login.gov

   I lost my codes for Login.gov. How do I regain access to my account?

Login.gov is a third-party authentication system outside the control of the Copyright Office. Please follow these steps to
regain access to your account:

1.  You will need to delete the Login.gov account. This may take up to twenty-four hours according to Login.gov.

2.   Once you have deleted your account, please notify us at copyinfo@copyright.gov, and we will clear the

authentication token from our system.

3.   After you hear back from us, you can recreate the Login.gov account with the same email address used to establish

the original Recordation System account. Once the account is recreated, log in using the recreated account but STOP
once you see a screen with an online form.

      Please contact copyinfo@copyright.gov once you have completed this step. We will reconnect your Recordation

System account with the newly created Login.gov account.

4.   Once we have confirmed that the connection step is complete, you can then use the recreated Login.gov account

with the same email address to regain access to the Recordation System and filings.

This whole process will not affect saved information in the system. This process only resets the authentication tokens.

    Deposit Accounts

    Can I use my existing deposit account for the Recordation System?

You cannot link existing deposit accounts to the Recordation System. You must create a new deposit account through Pay.
gov for system submissions. You can also make credit card or ACH payments through Pay.gov.

    Can I replenish my deposit account using a W-9 or submit payment to the Office using a check?

The Recordation System does not support auto-replenishment or check payment for deposit accounts. We only allow
replenishments through Pay.gov, which allows you to make ACH and credit card payments.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Can I transfer funds from our existing Copyright Office deposit account to the new Recordation System deposit account?

We cannot transfer funds between existing deposit accounts and the Recordation System. You can request that specific
funds from your existing deposit account be refunded to you and then add those funds to your Recordation System deposit
account by using Pay.gov. Please send your refund request to depositaccts@copyright.gov.

    I have questions about my deposit account statement. Whom should I contact?

Please reach out to depositaccts@copyright.gov.

    Automated Clearing House (ACH)

    I initiated payment for our deposit account, but it still says “Pending.” Why is this?

ACH payments made with Pay.gov can take up to five days to clear depending on the authorizing bank. Once Pay.gov has
cleared the funds and we receive confirmation of the completed transaction, the funds will be available in your deposit
account.

    Fees

    Will the fee for recording additional works and alternate identifiers with my document be the same if I use the

Recordation System?

The Recordation System uses the fee schedule published on the Copyright Office’s website at copyright.gov/about/fees.html.
Recordation of documents through the system is considered “Electronic” for purposes of calculating the base fee and
number of additional works and alternate identifiers. The system will automatically calculate the fee based on the
information you provide.

    Forms

    Is the document cover sheet (Form DCS) still a requirement when uploading the document for recordation? Can I use page

3 of the document cover sheet (Form DCS) for the certifications since the language is the same?

Your Recordation System submission will be rejected if you use Form DCS, so please do not use it. The system captures the
necessary information for recording and certifying documents.

If you cannot make either or both of the required document certifications, the Recordation System includes downloadable
certification forms for you to use.

    Where are the Recordation System forms located?

All required forms are found within the system, which includes the following items:

•  True and Correct Copy Certification
•  Recordation Eligibility Certification
•  Multi-Work Upload Spreadsheet

Do not use Form DCS when using the system. Submissions including Form DCS will be rejected.

    Documents

    Can I change the document file after it has been submitted?

You must review your document before submission. You only can change your document in a submitted service request when
it is waiting for examination in “Pending” status.

Once your service request reaches an examiner, you can no longer change the document. The only items you will be able to
change are indexing information. If the examiner finds that the document file is incorrect, the service request will be rejected.

Since “Special Handling” skips the “Pending” status and goes straight to an examiner, you will not have any window to change
your document if you select “Special Handling.”

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Do I need to include the document’s “Attachment” or “Exhibit” sections in the uploaded PDF if I list the works in the Multi-

Works Upload Spreadsheet?

The Copyright Office will reject any submission that does not meet the completeness requirement. If the document
uploaded to the Recordation System does not include a particular schedule or exhibit, then it cannot stand on its own terms
and fails to meet that requirement.

The Multi-Work Upload Spreadsheet is provided to allow for bulk uploading of indexing information, but it is not part of the
document recorded by the Office.

Section 6 (Indexing Information) and Section 8 (Corrections, Amplifications, and Withdrawals) of the Special Pilot Program
Rules detail information pertaining to indexing information and when the document may or may not be changed in the
submission process.

  Can I upload any file ending with a PDF extension?

Please only upload single PDF files. Do not upload PDF portfolio files. When combining PDF files, please combine them into a
single PDF document rather than placing them in a PDF portfolio.

The Copyright Office does not provide technical support for PDF tools. You will need to reference your application’s support
content to determine how to combine PDFs into one PDF document.

You can view Adobe Acrobat’s online support pages here:
helpx.adobe.com/acrobat/how-to/combine-merge-split-extract-pdf-files.html

    Works

    How do I identify works that are pending registration?

The Recordation System does not have a field to enter service request (SR) numbers for in-progress registration applications.
Once you have obtained a registration number, you may update your recordation to add this number with a post-recordation
correction.

    How do I know if I need to break something out as an alternate title?

In some situations, a single work may be known as multiple titles. If the work has more than one title, choose one of them to
be the “primary title.” The other titles for the work are “alternative titles.”

For example, the document may list “Star Wars,” “Episode IV,” and “A New Hope” as titles for the same work. In this situation,
the primary title of the work could be “Star Wars” and alternative titles could be “Episode IV” and “A New Hope.”

    Special Handling

    Can I add special handling to a Recordation System service request?

Yes. Special handling options are found on the “Pay and Submit” tab, and you can add them at the time of submission.

    Review Process

    If documents are submitted electronically, will the Office review them more quickly than physical submissions?

Recordation staff will review documents submitted electronically through the system as they are received. Paper documents
follow a different workflow process. Please note that the Special Pilot Program Rules generally prohibit dual submissions,
stating that “[n]o submission may be made both electronically and in paper form unless approved by the Copyright Office.”

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Status

   What does “Pending Approval” mean?

“Pending Approval” means that your submission has been approved and is queued up for publication in the Copyright Office’s
Public Catalog.

    Corrections

   Will corrections entail a new filing fee, and will they affect the original filing’s date of recordation?

Although the Copyright Office intends to establish a fee to make corrections and amplifications, there is currently no fee for
most changes. Corrections will only incur an updated fee if the changes modify how the filing fees are calculated. For example,
a remitter may index additional transfers or works during corrections, resulting in a higher overall fee than previously paid for
the original filing.

In that case, the remitter would be required to pay the difference when submitting the corrected application. In addition,
because the date of recordation is determined, in part, by when the Office receives payment, if a correction results in a fee
difference, then the date of recordation will be the date when the difference is paid.

   How do I resubmit my service request (SR) after the examiner sent it back to me?

If you receive correspondence from the Copyright Office asking you to make corrections in your submitted service request (SR),
please locate and open your SR from your "Draft" tab on your dashboard and make the requested changes. Once the changes
are made, proceed to the Pay and Submit page to make payments (if needed), recertify, and resubmit.

If you received correspondence from the Office asking you to make corrections in your SR but later discovered that no changes
are required (for example, through further conversations or correspondence with the Office), please locate and open your SR
from your "Draft" tab on your dashboard, navigate directly to the Pay and Submit page without making any changes, recertify,
and resubmit.

    I only made minor corrections or amplifications. Do I still need to go through the Pay and Submit page when no payment

should be involved?

Yes. To resubmit your service request, you must go through the Pay and Submit page. If your correction or amplifications does
not result in a fee change, you will not be required to make a payment on the Pay and Submit page. You will still be required to
complete the required resubmission steps on the Pay and Submit tab.

    Certificate and Numbered Document

   Where do I find my certificate of recordation and numbered document?

Once your submission is approved and in “Closed” status, you will be able to find your certificate and numbered document on
the Application Review page.

    Will the Office send the certificate of recordation and numbered document by email, or must I access them directly from

the recordation system?

The Office will not send the certificate and numbered document by email. You can access the numbered document and
certificate directly from the recordation system on the Application Review page for an approved submission once it is in
“Closed” status.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Refund

   Will I get a refund if my service request is rejected?

The Copyright Office retains the base fee and refunds the remaining amount, if any. Refunds are not immediate. If there are
fees to be refunded for the rejected service request, the system will automatically put in a refund request with our finance
department, and they will review and process the refund. The refund will go back to the original source of payment.

    Withdraw

   Will I get a refund when withdrawing my application?

If your submission is in “Pending” status, then a refund request will be submitted on your behalf if you withdraw within
seven calendar days.

If your submission is in “In Review” status, you are not eligible for a refund if you withdraw your submission.

    Correction/Withdraw Timing

Are you trying to correct, amplify, or withdraw a service request (SR)? Use this helpful guide to determine when it
is okay to correct, amplify, or withdraw a document.

If the Copyright Office
has not started reviewing
your service request…

If the Copyright Office
is in the process of reviewing
your service request…

If the Copyright Office
has approved and closed
your service request…

While the SR is in “Pending” status,
you can make any changes to the
service request.

•  CAN  replace certification

statements

• CAN replace document

• CAN  update proof of signature
within the document

Once your SR is under review,
corrections can only be initiated
by the Copyright Office. If you
found errors within your SR, you
may submit a correction request
for the Office’s consideration.

The SR is now in “Closed” status.
If you initiate a correction,
information from the original
SR will be copied into a new
“correction” SR for you to
update.

• CANNOT  update proof of

• CANNOT  make changes to

signature within the
document

the original SR

• CANNOT  withdraw the

original SR

• CAN update indexing information

• CANNOT replace document

• CAN withdraw the SR

• CAN  replace certification

• CAN  replace or update

statements

• CAN  update indexing
information

• CAN withdraw the SR

certification statements
in the new correction SR

• CAN  replace document in the
new correction SR

• CAN  update indexing

information in the new
correction SR

updated january 2023
