Registration Processing Times*

The Copyright Office’s processing times vary based on a number of factors, including how difficult a claim is to review, whether an
applicant submitted a physical deposit, whether the Copyright Office needs to correspond with an applicant, and the number of
registration specialists available to review claims. For example, claims take longer to process when applicants submit online claims
but do not submit physical deposits when necessary, or when applicants do not fully respond to an examiner’s questions. The Office
encourages applicants to refer to the Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices and the Copyright Office’s circulars prior to
submitting applications to avoid unnecessary delays and correspondence.

Note: During a lapse of appropriations from October 1 through November 12, 2025, the Office received registration applications,
but staff were not able to process them during that time. Since return to normal operations, those applications are being generally
processed in the order in which they were received. The effective date of a copyright registration is the day on which an acceptable
application, deposit, and fee have all been received in the Copyright Office.

For questions, please contact the Public Information Office by phone at (202) 707-3000 or 1-877-476-0778 (toll-free), or online at
www.copyright.gov/help. While the Public Information Office can provide information on pending claims, it can take the Copyright

Office as long as the outer ranges set forth below to issue decisions on whether to register claims.

The average processing time for all claims is 2.5 months. The Office had to communicate with applicants on
twenty-five percent of all claims to resolve questions about submitted claims before rendering a decision. For information

on the processing times and correspondence rates for specific types of applications, see the below charts.

eService Claims: online application with uploaded digital deposit

(approximately 86% of all applications)

Claims that DO NOT require correspondence   (approximately 73% of all eService claims and 63% of all claims)

average 1.9 months
(but claims can range from less than 1 month to 3.8 months)

Claims WITH correspondence   (approximately 27% of all eService claims and 23% of all claims)

average 3.7 months
(but claims can range from less than 1 month to 8.1 months)

Deposit Ticket Claims: online application with mail-in physical deposit

(approximately 13% of all applications)

Claims that DO NOT require correspondence   (approximately 76% of all Deposit Ticket claims and 10% of all claims)

average 2.4 months
(but claims can range from less than 1 month to 6.5 months)

Claims WITH correspondence   (approximately 24% of all Deposit Ticket claims and 3% of all claims)

average 4.4 months
(but claims can range from less than 1 month to 10.6 months)

Mail Claims: application by paper form submission

(approximately 1% of all applications)

Claims that DO NOT require correspondence   (approximately 50% of all Mail claims and less than 1% of all claims)

average 4.2 months
(but claims can range from less than 1 month to 13.7 months)

Claims WITH correspondence   (approximately 50% of all Mail claims and less than 1% of all claims)

average 6.7 months
(but claims can range from less than 1 month to 16.8 months)

* Processing times for cases closed April 1, 2025 – September 30, 2025.
